category,text
tech,tv future in the hands of viewers with home theatre systems  plasma high-definition tvs  and digital video recorders moving into the living room  the way people watch tv will be radically different in five years  time.  that is according to an expert panel which gathered at the annual consumer electronics show in las vegas to discuss how these new technologies will impact one of our favourite pastimes. with the us leading the trend  programmes and other content will be delivered to viewers via home networks  through cable  satellite  telecoms companies  and broadband service providers to front rooms and portable devices.  one of the most talked-about technologies of ces has been digital and personal video recorders (dvr and pvr). these set-top boxes  like the us s tivo and the uk s sky+ system  allow people to record  store  play  pause and forward wind tv programmes when they want.  essentially  the technology allows for much more personalised tv. they are also being built-in to high-definition tv sets  which are big business in japan and the us  but slower to take off in europe because of the lack of high-definition programming. not only can people forward wind through adverts  they can also forget about abiding by network and channel schedules  putting together their own a-la-carte entertainment. but some us networks and cable and satellite companies are worried about what it means for them in terms of advertising revenues as well as  brand identity  and viewer loyalty to channels. although the us leads in this technology at the moment  it is also a concern that is being raised in europe  particularly with the growing uptake of services like sky+.  what happens here today  we will see in nine months to a years  time in the uk   adam hume  the bbc broadcast s futurologist told the bbc news website. for the likes of the bbc  there are no issues of lost advertising revenue yet. it is a more pressing issue at the moment for commercial uk broadcasters  but brand loyalty is important for everyone.  we will be talking more about content brands rather than network brands   said tim hanlon  from brand communications firm starcom mediavest.  the reality is that with broadband connections  anybody can be the producer of content.  he added:  the challenge now is that it is hard to promote a programme with so much choice.   what this means  said stacey jolna  senior vice president of tv guide tv group  is that the way people find the content they want to watch has to be simplified for tv viewers. it means that networks  in us terms  or channels could take a leaf out of google s book and be the search engine of the future  instead of the scheduler to help people find what they want to watch. this kind of channel model might work for the younger ipod generation which is used to taking control of their gadgets and what they play on them. but it might not suit everyone  the panel recognised. older generations are more comfortable with familiar schedules and channel brands because they know what they are getting. they perhaps do not want so much of the choice put into their hands  mr hanlon suggested.  on the other end  you have the kids just out of diapers who are pushing buttons already - everything is possible and available to them   said mr hanlon.  ultimately  the consumer will tell the market they want.   of the 50 000 new gadgets and technologies being showcased at ces  many of them are about enhancing the tv-watching experience. high-definition tv sets are everywhere and many new models of lcd (liquid crystal display) tvs have been launched with dvr capability built into them  instead of being external boxes. one such example launched at the show is humax s 26-inch lcd tv with an 80-hour tivo dvr and dvd recorder. one of the us s biggest satellite tv companies  directtv  has even launched its own branded dvr at the show with 100-hours of recording capability  instant replay  and a search function. the set can pause and rewind tv for up to 90 hours. and microsoft chief bill gates announced in his pre-show keynote speech a partnership with tivo  called tivotogo  which means people can play recorded programmes on windows pcs and mobile devices. all these reflect the increasing trend of freeing up multimedia so that people can watch what they want  when they want.
business,worldcom boss  left books alone  former worldcom boss bernie ebbers  who is accused of overseeing an $11bn (£5.8bn) fraud  never made accounting decisions  a witness has told jurors.  david myers made the comments under questioning by defence lawyers who have been arguing that mr ebbers was not responsible for worldcom s problems. the phone company collapsed in 2002 and prosecutors claim that losses were hidden to protect the firm s shares. mr myers has already pleaded guilty to fraud and is assisting prosecutors.  on monday  defence lawyer reid weingarten tried to distance his client from the allegations. during cross examination  he asked mr myers if he ever knew mr ebbers  make an accounting decision  .  not that i am aware of   mr myers replied.  did you ever know mr ebbers to make an accounting entry into worldcom books   mr weingarten pressed.  no   replied the witness. mr myers has admitted that he ordered false accounting entries at the request of former worldcom chief financial officer scott sullivan. defence lawyers have been trying to paint mr sullivan  who has admitted fraud and will testify later in the trial  as the mastermind behind worldcom s accounting house of cards.  mr ebbers  team  meanwhile  are looking to portray him as an affable boss  who by his own admission is more pe graduate than economist. whatever his abilities  mr ebbers transformed worldcom from a relative unknown into a $160bn telecoms giant and investor darling of the late 1990s. worldcom s problems mounted  however  as competition increased and the telecoms boom petered out. when the firm finally collapsed  shareholders lost about $180bn and 20 000 workers lost their jobs. mr ebbers  trial is expected to last two months and if found guilty the former ceo faces a substantial jail sentence. he has firmly declared his innocence.
sport,tigers wary of farrell  gamble  leicester say they will not be rushed into making a bid for andy farrell should the great britain rugby league captain decide to switch codes.   we and anybody else involved in the process are still some way away from going to the next stage   tigers boss john wells told bbc radio leicester.  at the moment  there are still a lot of unknowns about andy farrell  not least his medical situation.  whoever does take him on is going to take a big  big gamble.  farrell  who has had persistent knee problems  had an operation on his knee five weeks ago and is expected to be out for another three months. leicester and saracens are believed to head the list of rugby union clubs interested in signing farrell if he decides to move to the 15-man game.  if he does move across to union  wells believes he would better off playing in the backs  at least initially.  i m sure he could make the step between league and union by being involved in the centre   said wells.  i think england would prefer him to progress to a position in the back row where they can make use of some of his rugby league skills within the forwards.  the jury is out on whether he can cross that divide.  at this club  the balance will have to be struck between the cost of that gamble and the option of bringing in a ready-made replacement.
sport,yeading face newcastle in fa cup premiership side newcastle united face a trip to ryman premier league leaders yeading in the fa cup third round.  the game - arguably the highlight of the draw - is a potential money-spinner for non-league yeading  who beat slough in the second round. conference side exeter city  who knocked out doncaster on saturday  will travel to old trafford to meet holders manchester united in january. arsenal were drawn at home to stoke and chelsea will play host to scunthorpe. the only other non-league side in the draw are hinckley united  who held brentford to a goalless draw on sunday. they will meet league one leaders luton if they win their replay against martin allen s team at griffin park.  a number of premiership teams face difficult away games against championship sides on the weekend of 8/9 january. third-placed everton visit plymouth  liverpool travel to burnley  crystal palace go to sunderland  fulham face carling cup semi-finalists watford  bolton meet ipswich  while aston villa were drawn against sheffield united. premiership strugglers norwich  blackburn  west brom are away at west ham  cardiff and preston north end respectively. southampton visit northampton  having already beaten the league two side in the carling cup earlier this season. middlesbrough were drawn away against either swindon or notts county  while spurs entertain brighton at white hart lane.  arsenal v stoke  swindon/notts co v middlesbrough  man utd v exeter  plymouth v everton  leicester v blackpool  derby v wigan  sunderland v crystal palace  wolves v millwall  yeading v newcastle  hull v colchester  tottenham v brighton  reading v stockport/swansea  birmingham v leeds  hartlepool v boston  milton keynes dons v peterborough  oldham v man city  chelsea v scunthorpe  cardiff v blackburn  charlton v rochdale  west ham v norwich  sheff utd v aston villa  preston v west brom  rotherham v yeovil  burnley v liverpool  bournemouth v chester  coventry v crewe  watford v fulham  ipswich v bolton  portsmouth v gillingham  northampton v southampton  qpr v nottm forest  luton v hinckley/brentford  matches to be played on weekend of 8/9 january.
entertainment,ocean s twelve raids box office ocean s twelve  the crime caper sequel starring george clooney  brad pitt and julia roberts  has gone straight to number one in the us box office chart.  it took $40.8m (£21m) in weekend ticket sales  according to studio estimates. the sequel follows the master criminals as they try to pull off three major heists across europe. it knocked last week s number one  national treasure  into third place. wesley snipes  blade: trinity was in second  taking $16.1m (£8.4m). rounding out the top five was animated fable the polar express  starring tom hanks  and festive comedy christmas with the kranks.  ocean s twelve box office triumph marks the fourth-biggest opening for a december release in the us  after the three films in the lord of the rings trilogy. the sequel narrowly beat its 2001 predecessor  ocean s eleven which took $38.1m (£19.8m) on its opening weekend and $184m (£95.8m) in total. a remake of the 1960s film  starring frank sinatra and the rat pack  ocean s eleven was directed by oscar-winning director steven soderbergh. soderbergh returns to direct the hit sequel which reunites clooney  pitt and roberts with matt damon  andy garcia and elliott gould. catherine zeta-jones joins the all-star cast.  it s just a fun  good holiday movie   said dan fellman  president of distribution at warner bros. however  us critics were less complimentary about the $110m (£57.2m) project  with the los angeles times labelling it a  dispiriting vanity project . a milder review in the new york times dubbed the sequel  unabashedly trivial .
politics,howard hits back at mongrel jibe michael howard has said a claim by peter hain that the tory leader is acting like an  attack mongrel  shows labour is  rattled  by the opposition.  in an upbeat speech to his party s spring conference in brighton  he said labour s campaigning tactics proved the tories were hitting home. mr hain made the claim about tory tactics in the anti-terror bill debate.  something tells me that someone  somewhere out there is just a little bit rattled   mr howard said. mr hain  leader of the commons  told bbc radio four s today programme that mr howard s stance on the government s anti-terrorism legislation was putting the country at risk. he then accused the tory leader of behaving like an  attack mongrel  and  playing opposition for opposition sake .  mr howard told his party that labour would  do anything  say anything  claim anything to cling on to office at all costs .  so far this year they have compared me to fagin  to shylock and to a flying pig. this morning peter hain even called me a mongrel.  i don t know about you  but something tells me that someone  somewhere out there is just a little bit rattled.  environment secretary margaret beckett rejected mr howard s comment  telling radio 4 s pm programme that labour was not  rattled .  we have a very real duty to try to get people to focus on michael howard s record  what the proposals are that he is trying to put forward to the country and also the many examples we are seeing now of what we believe is really poor judgement on his behalf.   mr howard said tory policies on schools  taxes  immigration and crime were striking a chord with voters.   since the beginning of this year - election year - we ve been making the political weather   he told the party conference. mr howard denied he had been  playing politics  by raising the case of margaret dixon  whose operation had been cancelled seven times  which grabbed headlines for the party two weeks ago. and he hit back at labour claims he had used mrs dixon as a  human shield .  she s not a human shield mr blair  she s a human being.  mr howard said his party plans for immigration quotas  which have also been the focus of much media coverage  were not  racist  - just  common sense .  he pledged cleaner hospitals and better school discipline  with a promise to get rid of  political correctness  in the national curriculum and give everyone to the same chance of a  decent  state education as he had.  i come from an ordinary family. if the teenage michael howard were applying to cambridge today  gordon brown would love me.   and he stressed his party s commitment to cut taxes and red tape and increase the basic state pension in line with earnings. he finished with a personal appeal to party activists to go out and win the next election.  one day you will be able to tell your children and grandchildren as i will tell mine   i was there. i did my bit. i played my part. i helped to win that famous election - the election that transformed our country for the better .  labour election co-ordinator alan milburn said:  michael howard s speech today confirms what we have always said - that his only strategy is opportunism but he has no forward vision for the country. in reference to the appearance of mr howard s family on the conference stage with him  mr milburn said:  michael howard is perfectly entitled to pose with his family today.  but it is the hard working families across britain that will be damaged by his plan to cut £35bn from public spending.
politics,blair prepares to name poll date tony blair is likely to name 5 may as election day when parliament returns from its easter break  the bbc s political editor has learned.  andrew marr says mr blair will ask the queen on 4 or 5 april to dissolve parliament at the end of that week. mr blair has so far resisted calls for him to name the day but all parties have stepped up campaigning recently. downing street would not be drawn on the claim  saying election timing was a matter for the prime minister.  a number 10 spokeswoman would only say:  he will announce an election when he wants to announce an election.  the move will signal a frantic week at westminster as the government is likely to try to get key legislation through parliament. the government needs its finance bill  covering the budget plans  to be passed before the commons closes for business at the end of the session on 7 april.  but it will also seek to push through its serious and organised crime bill and id cards bill. mr marr said on wednesday s today programme:  there s almost nobody at a senior level inside the government or in parliament itself who doesn t expect the election to be called on 4 or 5 april.  as soon as the commons is back after the short easter recess  tony blair whips up to the palace  asks the queen to dissolve parliament ... and we re going.  the labour government officially has until june 2006 to hold general election  but in recent years governments have favoured four-year terms.
sport,henman hopes ended in dubai third seed tim henman slumped to a straight sets defeat in his rain-interrupted dubai open quarter-final against ivan ljubicic.  the croatian eighth seed booked his place in the last four with a 7-5 6-4 victory over the british number one. henman had looked on course to level the match after going 2-0 up in the second set  but his progress was halted as the rain intervened again. ljubicic hit back after the break to seal a fourth straight win over henman. earlier in the day  spanish fifth seed tommy robredo secured his semi-final place when he beat nicolas kiefer of germany 6-4 6-4. afterwards  henman was left cursing the weather and the umpire after seven breaks for rain during the match.  it was incredibly frustrating   henman said.  it s raining and the umpire doesn t take control.  he kept telling us to play till the end of the game. but if it s raining  you come off - the score s irrelevant.  it couldn t be more frustrating as i was very happy with my form until now. you don t expect this in the desert.
sport,wilkinson fit to face edinburgh england captain jonny wilkinson will make his long-awaited return from injury against edinburgh on saturday.  wilkinson  who has not played since injuring his bicep on 17 october  took part in full-contact training with newcastle falcons on wednesday. and the 25-year-old fly-half will start saturday s heineken cup match at murrayfield on the bench. but newcastle director of rugby rob andrew said:  he s fine and we hope to get him into the game at some stage.  the 25-year-old missed england s autumn internationals after aggravating the haematoma in his upper right arm against saracens. he was subsequently replaced as england captain by full-back jason robinson. sale s charlie hodgson took over the number 10 shirt in the internationals against canada  south africa and australia. wilkinson s year has been disrupted by injury as his muscle problem followed eight months on the sidelines with a shoulder injury sustained in the world cup final.
entertainment,last star wars  not for children  the sixth and final star wars movie may not be suitable for young children  film-maker george lucas has said.  he told us tv show 60 minutes that revenge of the sith would be the darkest and most violent of the series.  i don t think i would take a five or six-year-old to this   he told the cbs programme  to be aired on sunday. lucas predicted the film would get a us rating advising parents some scenes may be unsuitable for under-13s. it opens in the uk and us on 19 may. he said he expected the film would be classified pg-13 - roughly equivalent to a british 12a rating.  the five previous star wars films have all carried less restrictive pg - parental guidance - ratings in the us. in the uk  they have all been passed u - suitable for all - with the exception of attack of the clones  which got a pg rating in 2002. revenge of the sith - the third prequel to the original 1977 star wars film - chronicles the transformation of the heroic anakin skywalker into the evil darth vader as he travels to a hell-like planet composed of erupting volcanoes and molten lava.  we re going to watch him make a pact with the devil   lucas said.  the film is much more dark  more emotional. it s much more of a tragedy.
entertainment,berlin cheers for anti-nazi film a german movie about an anti-nazi resistance heroine has drawn loud applause at berlin film festival.  sophie scholl - the final days portrays the final days of the member of the white rose movement. scholl  21  was arrested and beheaded with her brother  hans  in 1943 for distributing leaflets condemning the  abhorrent tyranny  of adolf hitler. director marc rothemund said:  i have a feeling of responsibility to keep the legacy of the scholls going.   we must somehow keep their ideas alive   he added.  the film drew on transcripts of gestapo interrogations and scholl s trial preserved in the archive of communist east germany s secret police. their discovery was the inspiration behind the film for rothemund  who worked closely with surviving relatives  including one of scholl s sisters  to ensure historical accuracy on the film. scholl and other members of the white rose resistance group first started distributing anti-nazi leaflets in the summer of 1942. they were arrested as they dropped leaflets at munich university calling for a  day of reckoning  with adolf hitler s regime. the film focuses on the six days from scholl s arrest to the intense trial which saw scholl initially deny the charges and ended with a defiant appearance. it is one of three german films vying for a top prize at the festival.  a south african film version of bizet s tragic opera carmen shot in cape town in the xhosa language has also premiered at the berlin festival. the film is entitled u-carmen ekhayelitsha or carmen in khayelitsha after the township in which the story is set. it is performed by a 40-strong music and theatre troupe in their debut film performance. the film is the first south african feature in 25 years and only the second to be nominated for a golden bear award.
business,virgin blue shares plummet 20% shares in australian budget airline virgin blue plunged 20% after it warned of a steep fall in full year profits.  virgin blue said profits after tax for the year to march would be between 10% to 15% lower than the previous year.  sluggish demand reported previously for november and now december 2004 continues   said virgin blue chief executive brett godfrey. virgin blue  which is 25% owned by richard branson  has been struggling to fend off pressure from rival jetstar. it cut its full year passenger number forecast by  approximately 2.5% . virgin blue reported a 22% fall in first quarter profits in august 2004 due to tough competition. in november  first half profits were down due to slack demand and rising fuel costs. virgin blue was launched four years ago and now has roughly one third of australia s domestic airline market. but the national carrier  qantas  has fought back with its own budget airline  jetstar  which took to the skies in may 2004. sydney-listed virgin blue s shares recovered slightly to close 12% down on wednesday. shares in its major shareholder  patrick corporation - which owns 46% of virgin blue - had dropped 31% by the close.
business,crude oil prices back above $50 cold weather across parts of the united states and much of europe has pushed us crude oil prices above $50 a barrel for the first time in almost three months.  freezing temperatures and heavy snowfall have increased demand for heating fuel in the us  where stocks are low. fresh falls in the value of the dollar helped carry prices above the $50 mark for the first time since november. a barrel of us crude oil closed up $2.80 to $51.15 in new york on tuesday. opec members said on tuesday that it saw no reason to cut its output.  although below last year s peak of $55.67 a barrel  which was reached in october  prices are now well above 2004 s average of $41.48.  brent crude also rose in london trading  adding $1.89 to $48.62 at the close. much of western europe and the north east of america has been shivering under unseasonably low temperatures in recent days. the decline in the us dollar to a five-week low against the euro has also served to inflate prices.  the dollar moved sharply overnight and oil is following it   said chris furness  senior market strategist at 4cast.  if the dollar continues to weaken  oil will be obviously higher.   several opec members said a cut in production was unlikely  citing rising prices and strong demand for oil from asia.  i agree that we do not need to cut supply if the prices are as much as this   fathi bin shatwan  libya s oil minister  told reuters.  i do not think we need to cut unless the prices are falling below $35 a barrel   he added. opec closely watches global stocks to ensure that there is not an excessive supply in the market. the arrival of spring in the northern hemisphere will focus attention on stockpiles of us crude and gasoline  which are up to 9% higher than at this time last year. heavy stockpiles could help force prices lower when demand eases.
politics,hague  given up  his pm ambition former conservative leader william hague says he will not stand for the leadership again  having given up his ambition to be prime minister.  mr hague  43  told the daily telegraph he would now find a life dominated by politics too  boring  and unfulfilling. mr hague  who stepped down after his party s 2001 election defeat  does not rule out a return to the front bench. he also told the paper he hopes to remain mp for richmond  north yorks  and start a family with wife ffion. mr hague  who recently had published the biography of william pitt the younger  also said he wanted to continue writing books and speech-writing.  he told the newspaper:  i don t know whether i will ever go back on to the front  but don t rush me.  asked if he would stand for the leadership again  mr hague replied:  no. definitely not.  his determination to stay away from a central role will disappoint some senior conservative members  who say the party needs him. tim collins  the shadow education secretary  said last week it would be a  huge boost  to the party if mr hague returned to the front bench. mr hague became an mp at 27 and leader of the opposition at 36. he said:  i feel fortunate that  by the age of 40  i had crammed in an entire political career.  i had been in the cabinet and been leader of the party  so now i can branch out into other things...it is a very liberating feeling.  mr hague added that he may have misjudged his own ambition to be prime minister.  maybe i wasn t as driven by politics as i thought i was   he said.
sport,moya emotional after davis cup win carlos moya described spain s davis cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat andy roddick to end the usa s challenge in seville.  moya made up for missing spain s 2000 victory through injury by beating roddick 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead.  i have woken up so many nights dreaming of this day   said moya.  all my energy has been focused on today.  what i have lived today i do not think i will live again.  spain s only other davis cup title came two years ago in valencia  when they beat australia. and moya  nicknamed charly  admitted:  the davis cup is my dream and i was a bit nervous at the outset.  some people have said that i am obsessed but i think that it is better this way. it helps me reach my goals if i am obsessed.  it s really incredible - to get the winning point is really something.  spanish captain jordi arrese said:  charly played a great game. it was his opportunity and he hasn t let us down.  he had lost three times to roddick  and this was his day to beat him.  he had been waiting years to be in this position.  spain s victory was also remarkable for the performance of rafael nadal  who beat roddick in the opening singles.  aged 18 years and 185 days  the mallorcan became the youngest player to win the davis cup.  what a great way to finish the year   said nadal afterwards. us coach patrick mcenroe wants roddick and the rest of his team to play more tennis on clay and hone their skills on the surface.  i think it will help these guys even on slow hard courts to learn how to mix things up a little bit and to play a little bit smarter and tactically better.   obviously it s unrealistic to say that we re going to just start playing constantly on clay  with the schedule.  but certainly i think we can put the work in at the appropriate time and play a couple more events and play against these guys who are the best on this stuff   said mcenroe. roddick was left frustrated after losing both his singles on the slow clay of seville s olympic stadium.  it s just tough because i felt like i was in it the whole time against one of the top three clay-courters in the world   said the american.  i had my chances and just didn t convert them. the bottom line is they were just better than us this weekend.  they came out  took care of business and they beat us. it s as simple as that.
business,s korean credit card firm rescued south korea s largest credit card firm has averted liquidation following a one trillion won ($960m; £499m) bail-out.  lg card had been threatened with collapse because of its huge debts but the firm s creditors and its former parent have stepped in to rescue it. a consortium of creditors and lg group  a family owned conglomerate  have each put up $480m to stabilise the firm. lg card has seven million customers and its collapse would have sent shockwaves through the country s economy.  the firm s creditors - which own 99% of lg card - have been trying to agree a deal to secure its future for several weeks. they took control of the company in january when it avoided bankruptcy only through a $4.5bn bail-out.  they had threatened to delist the company  a move which would have triggered massive debt redemptions and forced the company into bankruptcy  unless agreement was reached on its future funding.  lg card will not need any more financial aid after this   laah chong-gyu  executive director of korea development bank - one of the firm s creditors - said.  the agreement will see some 12 trillion won of debt converted into equity.  the purpose of the capital injection is to avoid delisting and the goal will be met   david kim  an analyst at sejong securities  told reuters. south korea s consumer credit market has been slowly recovering from a crisis in 2002 when a credit bubble burst and millions of consumers fell behind on their debt repayments. lg card returned to profit in september but needed further capital to avoid being thrown off the market. south korea s stock exchange can delist any firm if its debt exceeds its assets two years running.
politics,howard backs stem cell research michael howard has backed stem cell research  saying it is important people are not frightened of the future.  the controversial issue was a feature of the recent us presidential election  where george bush opposed extending it. but the tory leader argued there was a moral case for embracing science which could help victims of alzheimer s  parkinson s and motor neurone disease.  i believe we have a duty to offer hope to the millions of people who suffer devastating illnesses   he said. the use of embryonic stem cells in the uk is already allowed. stem cells are master cells that have the ability to develop into any of the body s tissue types. scientists hope that by growing such cells in the laboratory they can programme them to form specific tissue such as kidney  heart or even brain tissue.  mr howard acknowledged there were genuine concerns about stem cell research. but he argued:  we mustn t be frightened of change or nostalgic about the past - we must be optimistic about the future.  politicians must create the right framework so that the great potential of science can be harnessed for the benefit of mankind.  with the life expectancy of the average briton now around the mid-70s  society has a responsibility to enhance the quality of people s lives as they grow older.  i know many people are concerned about stem-cell research. they are fearful of meddling with what they see as the stuff of souls.  i respect those concerns. but i also believe we have a duty to offer hope to the millions of people who suffer devastating illnesses like parkinson s  multiple sclerosis  motor neurone disease  alzheimer s and - as we saw in the papers today - now possibly heart problems.   mr howard acknowledged there were  no easy answers  over such an issue but it was necessary to  have the courage to do what we know to be morally right . he added:  of course  stem cells are still a recent discovery. more research needs to be done. but we must look at their potential in a responsible and grown-up way. the hopes of millions of people rest on what could be achieved.  former superman actor the late christopher reeve was an advocate for the research after he was paralysed in a horse riding accident. mr howard made his remarks during a speech in westminster to the conservative national women s committee on ambitions and values.
sport,connors boost for british tennis former world number one jimmy connors is planning a long-term relationship with the lawn tennis association to help unearth the next tim henman.  the american spent three days at the lta s annual elite performance winter camp in la manga earlier this week.  britain has the right attitude   said connors.  the more involved i can be with the lta  the better.  a short-term arrangement is just confusing. the kids will ask:  what am i doing there    lta chief executive  john crowther  added:  the relationship that jimmy s already started to develop with the coaches and the players has said to us that we d like some more of it.  we want to use jimmy for a number of weeks a year and we hope this is the beginning of a good long-term relationship.   the camp played host to more than 30 leading senior and junior players  including greg rusedski  arvind parmar and anne keothavong.  la manga is an amazing site to take a bunch of kids who want to be the best   said connors  speaking at queen s club in london.  what impressed me most was not only the coaches but the way the kids went about their workouts and the feeling they put into every practice they had.  it was interesting to me to see kids of 15  16  17  with that desire and passion  and that can only be brought about by the coaches surrounding them.  instilling the importance of work and practice is something you can t buy.  they know what s been given to them and all they have to do is give back the effort  and every minute of practice they were doing that.   speaking from la manga  lta performance director david felgate told bbc sport:  jimmy was fantastic with the players and the coaches  and very humble considering what he s achieved.  he worked through the coaches and hopefully it will grow and he ll get to have more of an individual relationship with some of the players and get to know them.  he made it clear from the word go he didn t want it to be short-term. this is a 52-week-a-year job for me  it s my life and my passion and it s the same with the coaches.  he respects that but he wants to be involved and have real input. and why would he stake his reputation on something that s not going to be successful   connors has also agreed to commentate for the bbc at next year s wimbledon championships. he will work during the second week of the tournament.
business,japanese banking battle at an end japan s sumitomo mitsui financial has withdrawn its takeover offer for rival bank ufj holdings  enabling the latter to merge with mitsubishi tokyo.  sumitomo bosses told counterparts at ufj of its decision on friday  clearing the way for it to conclude a 3 trillion yen ($29bn) deal with mitsubishi. the deal would create the world s biggest bank with assets of about 189 trillion yen ($1.8 trillion). sumitomo s exit ends the most high profile fight in japanese bank history.  ufj holdings  japan s fourth-largest bank  has been at the centre of a fierce bid battle over the last year. sumitomo  japan s third-largest bank  tabled a higher offer for ufj than its rival  valuing the company at $35bn.  however  ufj s management was known to prefer the offer from mitsubishi tokyo financial group (mtfg)  japan s second-largest bank. concerns were also raised about sumitomo s ability to absorb ufj and the former has now admitted defeat.  we believe the market and most investors accept a ufj-mtfg merger   sumitomo said in a statement.  given the ongoing integration of ufj and mtfg operations  persisting with our proposal may not be in the best interests of our shareholders or ufj s.   mitsubishi s takeover of ufj - which will be japan s largest-ever takeover deal - will still have to be approved by shareholders of the two firms. however  this is expected to be a formality. sumitomo may now turn its attention to deepening its ties with daiwa securities  another japanese financial firm. the two are set to merge their venture capital operations and there has been speculation that this could lead to a full-blown merger. japanese banks are increasingly seeking alliances to boost profits.
tech,games maker fights for survival one of britain s largest independent game makers  argonaut games  has been put up for sale.  the london-based company behind the harry potter games has sacked about 100 employees due to a severe cash crisis. the administrators told bbc news online that selling argonaut was the only way to save it as it had run out of cash. argonaut warned that it was low on cash 10 days ago when its shares were suspended from trading on the london stock exchange.  argonaut has been making games for some 18 years and is one the largest independent games developers in the uk.  along with its headquarters in north london  it operates studios in cambridge and sheffield. argonaut was behind the harry potter games which provided a healthy flow of cash into the company. but  like all software developers  argonaut needed a constant flow of deals with publishers. signs that it was in trouble emerged in august  when it warned it was heading for losses of £6m in the financial year due to delays in signing new contracts for games. those new deals were further delayed  leading argonaut to warn in mid-october that it was running out of cash and suspend trading of its shares on the london stock exchange. as part of cost-cutting measures  some 100 employees were fired.  when the news about the £6m loss came out  we knew there were going to be redundancies   said jason parkinson  one of the game developers sacked by argonaut.  a lot of people suspected that argonaut had been in trouble for some time   he told bbc news online. mr parkinson said staff were told the job losses were necessary to save argonaut from going under. at the start of the year  the company employed 268 people. after the latest round of cuts there are 80 staff at argonaut headquarters in edgware in north london  with 17 at its morpheme offices in kentish town  london  and 22 at the just add monsters base in cambridge.  argonaut called in administrators david rubin & partners on friday to find a way to rescue the company from collapse. it spent the weekend going over the company s finances and concluded that the only way to save the business was to put it up for sale. the administrator told bbc news online that the costs of restructuing would be too high  partly because of the overheads from the company s four premises across the uk. it said it was hopeful that it could save some 110 jobs by selling the business  saying it had had expressions of interest from several quarters and were looking for a quick sale. the administrator said it would ensure that staff made redundant would receive any wages  redundancy or holiday pay due to them  hopefully by christmas.
tech,security warning over  fbi virus  the us federal bureau of investigation is warning that a computer virus is being spread via e-mails that purport to be from the fbi.  the e-mails show that they have come from an fbi.gov address and tell recipients that they have accessed illegal websites. the messages warn that their internet use has been monitored by the fbi s internet fraud complaint center. an attachment in the e-mail contains the virus  the fbi said. the message asks recipients to click on the attachment and answer some questions about their internet use. but rather than being a questionnaire  the attachment contains a virus that infects the recipient s computer  according to the agency. it is not clear what the virus does once it has infected a computer. users are warned never to open attachment from unsolicited e-mails or from people they do not know.   recipients of this or similar solicitations should know that the fbi does not engage in the practice of sending unsolicited e-mails to the public in this manner   the fbi said in a statement. the bureau is investigating the phoney e-mails. the agency earlier this month shut down fbi.gov accounts  used to communicate with the public  because of a security breach. a spokeswoman said the two incidents appear to be unrelated.
tech,halo 2 heralds traffic explosion the growing popularity of online gaming could spell problems for net service firms  warns network monitoring company sandvine.  it issued the warning following analysis which shows that traffic on the xbox game network increased fourfold on the launch day of halo 2. the 9 november traffic explosion has continued into december  said sandvine. service providers now need to make sure that their networks can cope with the increasing demands for bandwidth. as well as being a popular single-player title  halo 2 can be connected to microsoft s subscription-based broadband network  xbox live. gamers who want to play online can create their own clan  or team  and take on others to see how well they compare.  but the surge in numbers and huge demands for bandwidth should be a wake-up call to the industry which must ensure that their networks can cope with the increases in traffic  said sandvine s chief technology officer marc morin.  in a bid to cope and ease congestion  providers are increasingly making their networks intelligent  finding out who is using bandwidth and for what. it could become common to charge people for the amount of bandwidth they use.  the explosion in xbox live traffic attributed to halo 2 should be seen as a clarion call   he said.  isps need to enhance the broadband experience for these high-end users by prioritising or reserving bandwidth for games   he added.  one of the main factors that spoils online gaming is  lag  in which there is a noticeable delay between a gamer clicking on a mouse or keyboard and what happens in the online gaming world. gamers tend to migrate toward networks with the lowest  lag . analysing traffic will become increasingly important for service providers if they are to hold on to bandwidth-hungry gamers said lindsay schroth  an analyst with research firm the yankee group.  in the competitive broadband environment  operators need to differentiate the way they offer access to services like live-play gaming   she said. in countries such as korea  which has high levels of fast net connections to homes  online gaming is hugely popular.
sport,bates seals takeover ken bates has completed his takeover of leeds united.  the 73-year-old former chelsea chairman sealed the deal at 0227 gmt on friday  and has bought a 50% stake in the club. he said:  i m delighted to be stepping up to the mantel at such a fantastic club. i recognise leeds as a great club that has fallen on hard times.  we have a lot of hard work ahead to get the club back where it belongs in the premiership  and with the help of our fans we will do everything we can.  bates bought his stake under the guise of a geneva-based company known as the forward sports fund. he revealed that part of his plan is to buy back leeds  elland road stadium and thorp arch training ground in due course.   it s going to be a tough jon and the first task is to stabilise the cash flow and sort out the remaining creditors   bates added.  but there is light at the end of a very long tunnel. for the past year it has been a matter of firefighting - now we can start running the club again.  outgoing leeds chairman gerald krasner said:  this deal ensures the medium to long term survival of the club and i believe mr bates  proposals are totally for the benefit of the club.  we are content that under mr bates  leeds united will continue to consolidate and move forward.  when we took over leeds united in march 2004  the club had a debt of £103m  since that date  my board has succeeded in reducing the debt to under £25m.  we worked tirelessly to solve all of the problems at leeds united.  eighty percent of the problems have already been overcome and we came to this agreement with mr bates to secure its ongoing success.  krasner revealed that his consortium has been asked to remain in the background at the club for an undisclosed period to help ensure a smooth hand-over. he will stay on in an unpaid capacity while peter lorimer will continue in his role as director and point of contact for the fans and peter mccormick will serve as a consultant to the incoming board. the other outgoing directors have agreed to leave their loans of £4.5m in the company for the next four years. on leeds  new-look board it is understood that lorimer will be joined by former chelsea finance director yvonne todd and bates  lawyer mark taylor.  krasner refused to give any details of the finances involved in the takeover. he told bbc five live:  i am not going into the figures. if ken wants to give them up that is up to him. i can not tell you what the money will be used for.  this dea l is not about money for the current board. in the last four months i never saw any cheques until this week from one person. i am not stretching figures  we don t discuss internal arrangements.  bates stepped down as chelsea chairman in march last year following roman abramovich s £140m takeover at stamford bridge. in may  he made a proposal to invest £10m in sheffield wednesday  but this was rejected by the club. sebastien sainsbury had been close to a takeover of leeds but withdrew his £25m offer last week.  his efforts failed after he revealed it would take £40m to stage a takeover  and that the club will also lose £10m over the next six months. the club was on the brink of administration - and the deduction of 10 points by the football league - before bates  arrival but his investment has spared them that prospect.
sport,cole faces lengthy injury lay-off aston villa s carlton cole could be out for six weeks with a knee injury.  the striker  who is on a season-long loan from chelsea  picked up the knock in an england under-21 match against holland earlier this month.  carlton will be out of action for four to six weeks after a bad challenge   said villa boss david o leary.  i won t be able to tell you whether he will need an operation until maybe next week. whether he has an operation has got to be left to chelsea.  cole  who also struggled with an ankle problem earlier in the season  was unable to rest because o leary had a shortage of strikers. the return to fitness of darius vassell after four months out with a broken ankle and the emergence of luke moore has alleviated some of the villa s manager s problems in that department.
tech,mobile audio enters new dimension as mobile phones move closer to being a ubiquitous  all-in-one media player  audio is becoming ever more important. but how good can that sound be from such a small device   the sound of a buzzing bee jumps from left to right before disappearing around the back of my head. the surround sound demo is unremarkable when heard on a multi-speaker home cinema system but startling when emerging from a small mobile phone. british firm sonaptic is one of a number of companies to have developed 3d audio technology that emerges from stereo speakers. firms am3d and srs both offer stereo-widening technology for mobile phones. but sonaptic s managing director david monteith says his firm is the only company to offer positional 3d audio on a mobile.   there are quite a few basic technologies out there  making the sound seem a bit bigger  headphones a bit nicer.   no-one has really tried before to make proper 3d positional audio - where an individual channel can be moved around.  sonaptic has been working with japanese mobile network ntt docomo to set standards for 3d audio on mobile phones. in the last few months handsets from nec  fujitsu and mitsubishi have been released on to the japanese marker which have chips produced by yamaha and rohm with sonaptic s technology.  the technology has been around on pcs and games consoles for some time but what we are doing is making it more efficient so it can go on a small consumer device like a mobile phone   said mr monteith.  the technology works through applying the science of psychoacoustics and grew out of medical research done by the company s research director dr alastair sibbald.  we are basically trying to fool your ears into thinking sound is coming from areas it actually isn t.  your brain uses certain bits of information which we are effectively synthesising on a mobile phone handset.  the structure of the ear works as a 3d encoder for sound - helping the brain understand from where sound is emanating. sonaptic s audio processing algorithms mimic that 3d encoding  giving the impression that sound is coming from the left  right  and behind a listener when in fact it is coming from a single source. mr montieth says:  if the sound is off to one side it will get to one ear before the other - if it is on the right it has to bend around your head to get to your left ear.   the shape of your ear causes differences in sound from one ear to the other. we are synthesising those differences.  sonaptic hopes the technology will have a big impact in the growing market of mobile gaming and music downloading.  handhelds often have limitations - screens will be small by definition.  if you want to get impact from media you are running - either a movie  a game or watching tv - if you want it to be more immersive then our technology can help.  a fishing game is the first title to use the technology  creating a 3d sound field while the gamer plays. driving games and shoot  em ups using the technology are in development. the technology can also be used for music - giving songs a much more expansive and immersive feel. sonaptic offers its technology on a chip or in software and is about to release a new version which significantly improves the efficiency of the audio processing.  it s important we only use 10 or 15% of the processor otherwise you won t be able to play a game on the handset   explained mr montieth. the company is now looking to the us and european markets  where it has been working with network vodafone.  we have focused first on japan because it has a very advanced mobile phone market.  we knew japan would be the first place to have the handsets that could use our technology.  there should be handsets out in the uk in the next six months.
sport,moya fights back for indian title carlos moya became the first man to successfully defend the chennai open title by beating four-times finalist paradorn srichaphan 3-6 6-4 7-6 (7/5).  the spaniard then donated his £28 000 prize money to relief efforts for the victims of the asian tsunami. the final was close throughout  with thai second seed srichaphan - the 2003 winner - closing out the first set. but moya took the second set  before bouncing back from 5-2 down in the decider to force and win a tie-break. moya confirmed afterwards:  i m donating my prize money from this tournament for the tsunami victims  hoping it makes some difference to their lives. his contribution follows pledges by four other players to donate their prize money from the tournament  which went ahead after the 26 december disaster which has so far claimed at least 150 000 lives. scrichapan said he would donate an unspecified amount for relief work in thailand  where more than 5 000 people were killed. the atp has announced that it would contribute the us$25 000 tournament fee to unicef s emergency relief fund in tamil nadu. the atp tour s sponsor  mercedes  said it would also contribute  increasing the atp donation to us$40 000.
entertainment,career honour for actor dicaprio actor leonardo dicaprio s  exceptional career  has been honoured at the santa barbara international film festival.  the star was presented with the award by martin scorsese  who directed him in oscar-nominated movie the aviator.  it s a lifetime achievement award  which is completely and utterly surreal  given i m only 30 years old   dicaprio said.  but what has it been  almost 17 years now. i ve done quite a few films.  a retrospective of his movies was shown.   what s really exciting  for me  is that this is what i really love doing   he added.  it s what i want to do for the rest of my life.  dicaprio began his movie career in horror film critters 3  before moving onto roles in the basketball diaries  romeo and juliet  titanic and gangs of new york. the achievement award was created to commemorate the california festival s 20th anniversary and coincided with dicaprio s portrayal of millionaire howard hughes in the aviator.  veteran actress jane russell  who starred in hughes  1943 film the outlaw  said was impressed by dicaprio s quest for authenticity when he previously discussed the role with her.  i was very happy that (dicaprio) came and cared to come up and find out what (hughes) was really like   she said. the aviator has taken pole position in this year s oscars race with 11 nominations  including nominations for best film  best actor for dicaprio and best director for scorsese.
tech,mobile gig aims to rock 3g forget about going to a crowded bar to enjoy a gig by the latest darlings of the music press.  now you could also be at a live gig on your mobile  via the latest third generation (3g) video phones. rock outfit rooster are playing what has been billed as the first ever concert broadcast by phone on tuesday evening from a london venue. the 45-minute gig is due to be  phone cast  by the 3g mobile phone operator  3. 3g technology lets people take  watch and send video clips on their phones  as well as swap data much faster than with 2g networks like gsm. people with 3g phones in the uk can already download football and music clips on their handsets.  some 1 000 fans of the london-based band will have to pay five pounds for a ticket and need a 3g handset.   once you have paid  you can come and go as much as you like  because we expect the customers to be mobile   said 3 spokesperson belinda henderson.  it s like going to a concert hall  except that you are virtually there.  the company behind the trial hopes to learn more about how people use their video phones.  we are looking on how long people will stay on average on the streams. some people may stay the whole time  some may dip in and out   said ms henderson.  we actually expect people to dip in and out because they are mobile and they will be doing other things.  3 is looking to music as a way of persuading more people to take up the latest video phones. it is already planning regular gigs throughout 2005. and during the intermission  of course  you would still be able to make a phone call.
politics,terror suspects face house arrest uk citizens suspected of involvement in terrorism could face house arrest as part of a series of new measures outlined by the home secretary.  it comes after law lords ruled that the detention of 12 foreign terror suspects without trial breached human rights. charles clarke s planned  control orders  mean anyone suspected of being involved in terrorism could be subject to house arrest  curfews or tagging. the law society dubbed mr clarke s new proposals an  abuse of power . deals are already being sought to deport some of the foreign detainees who are mainly held in belmarsh prison in london under the current laws introduced after the us terror attacks on 11 september 2001. mr clarke said efforts would continue to deport them to their countries of origin algeria  tunisia  egypt and jordan without them facing torture or death.  under the proposed changes - prompted by the house of lords ruling - the home secretary could order british citizens or foreign suspects who could not be deported  to face house arrest or other measures such as restrictions on their movements or limits on their use of telephones and the internet.  british citizens are being included in the changes after the law lords said the current powers were discriminatory because they could only be used on foreign suspects. mr clarke also said intelligence reports showed some british nationals were now playing a more significant role in terror threats. human rights lawyer clive stafford-smith said the plans were a  further abuse of human rights in britain .  mr clarke said prosecutions were the government s first preference and promised the powers would only be used in  serious  cases  with independent scrutiny from judges.  he told mps:  there remains a public emergency threatening the life of the nation.  he accepted the law lords  ruling but argued detention powers had helped prevent attacks and deter terrorists. the current detainees would not be freed until the new powers were in place as they were still considered a national security threat  he told mps.  there have been calls for the rules for wire-tap and intercept evidence to be allowed to be used in courts but mr clarke refused to back that change.  he said intercept evidence was only a small part of the case against the men and some of it could not be used because it could put sources  lives at risk. most of the terror suspects are being held indefinitely at belmarsh prison  in london. conservative shadow home secretary david davis was worried about extending special powers to cover british citizens. he warned:  throughout history  internment has generally backfired because of the resentment it creates.  so unless the process is clearly just  the home secretary could find himself confining one known terrorist only to recruit 10 unknown terrorists.  he suggested changing the law to let security-cleared judges view evidence gathered by phone-tapping could allow more terror cases to come to court.  liberal democrat spokesman mark oaten also backed use of wire-tap evidence. he said the standard of proof for the new powers would have to be  very high indeed  and he asked whether ministers had looked at measures which fitted with human rights laws. shami chakrabarti  from human rights group liberty  joined calls for intercept evidence to be allowed in trials. she said:  adherence to the rule of law should not be a game of cat and mouse. the government should not swap one human rights  opt out  for another.
entertainment,halloween writer debra hill dies screenwriter and producer debra hill  best known for her work on the 70s horror classic halloween  has died in los angeles aged 54.  hill  who had been suffering from cancer  co-wrote the 1978 film  which starred jamie lee curtis as a babysitter terrorised by a psychopath. directed by john carpenter  it made over $60m (£31.3m) worldwide - a record for independent film at that time. hill also worked with carpenter on escape from new york and the fog. born in new jersey  hill began her career as a production assistant and worked her way through the ranks  becoming an assistant director and second-unit director before she began collaborating with carpenter.  she was regarded by many as a pioneering woman in film  taking on jobs in the 70s that were more commonly taken by men.  back when i started in 1974  there were very few women in the industry   she said in 2003.  i was assumed to be the make-up and hair person  or the script person. i was never assumed to be the writer or producer.   i took a look around and realised there weren t that many women  so i had to carve a niche for myself.  carpenter said that working with hill was  one of the greatest experiences of my life .  the ground that she trailblazed in the beginning can now be followed by anyone. she was incredibly capable and talented   he said. carpenter and hill collaborated on a number of halloween sequels  including halloween ii  halloween: resurrection and halloween: the curse of michael myers.  later in her career  hill formed a production company with her friend lynda obst  making a string of hit films including oscar nominee the fisher king and teen comedy adventures in babysitting. other films included the stephen king adaptation the dead zone in 1983 and 1985 s clue  a comedy based on the board game cluedo. in the 90s she pursued work in tv  although she was reunited with carpenter in 1996 for escape from la  the sequel to escape from new york. at the time of her death she was working on a film about the last two men pulled from the rubble of the twin towers following the 11 september terror attacks in 2001. she was also co-producing the remake of the fog  which is due for release early next year.
politics,royal couple watch nation s mood prince charles and camilla parker bowles are awaiting the nation s reaction after announcing they are to be married on 8 april.  mrs parker bowles will take the title hrh duchess of cornwall after a civil ceremony to be held at windsor castle. a daily telegraph poll of 1 313 people suggests two-thirds of britons support the couple s decision to marry. but only 40% think mrs parker bowles should become princess consort as planned after charles becomes king. some 47% believe she should have no title  while 7% think she should become queen.  the poll also found that the majority of britons would prefer the monarchy to miss a generation  with the queen handing the throne to her grandson prince william  22  on her death or abdication. on thursday night  prince charles  56  and mrs parker bowles  57  hosted a dinner at windsor castle  their first public appearance since announcing their engagement. mrs parker bowles said the prince went down on one knee to propose and added:  i m just coming down to earth.  she displayed her diamond engagement ring - a royal family heirloom - to reporters. charles said he and his wife-to-be were  absolutely delighted . their marriage will end years of speculation on a relationship which dates back to 1970.  the queen and duke of edinburgh said the news had made them  very happy . princes william and harry said they are  very happy  and wish the couple  all the luck in the future . the wedding will be a civil ceremony followed by a service of prayer and dedication in st george s chapel at which the archbishop of canterbury  dr rowan williams  will preside.  the marriage is likely to be a sensitive issue because mrs parker bowles is divorced and her former husband is still alive. if he became king  charles would be the supreme governor of the church of england and some anglicans remain opposed to the remarriage of divorcees.  his divorce from diana and the disappointment the country felt over how diana had been treated... opened up a sense of disillusionment with [prince charles]   said ros coward  who wrote the authorised biography of diana  princess of wales. the archbishop of canterbury said:  i am pleased that prince charles and mrs camilla parker bowles have decided to take this important step.  tony blair said he was  delighted  for the couple and offered his congratulations  as did conservative leader michael howard and liberal democrat leader charles kennedy. australia s prime minister john howard also offered his congratulations  adding that their decision to marry was a  sensible and a good thing . mrs parker bowles has joined the prince at numerous engagements in recent years - mostly at evening events for the prince s trust. clarence house staff were at pains to point out that she attended these events in a private capacity.
tech,firefox browser takes on microsoft microsoft s internet explorer has a serious rival in the long-awaited firefox 1.0 web browser  which has just been released.  few people get excited when some new software is released  especially when the program is not a game or a music or movie player. but the release of the first full version of firefox has managed to drum up a respectable amount of pre-launch fervour. fans of the software have banded together to raise cash to pay for an advert in the new york times announcing that version 1.0 of the browser is available. the release of firefox 1.0 on 9 november might even cause a few heads to turn at microsoft because the program is steadily winning people away from the software giant s internet explorer browser.  firefox has been created by the mozilla foundation which was started by former browser maker netscape back in 1998. much of the development work done since then has gone into firefox which made its first appearance under this name in february. earlier incarnations  but which had the same core technology  were called phoenix and firebird. since then the software has been gaining praise and converts  not least because of the large number of security problems that have come to light in microsoft s internet explorer. rivals to ie got a boost in late june when two us computer security organisations warned people to avoid the microsoft program to avoid falling victim to a serious vulnerability.  internet monitoring firm websidestory has charted the growing population of people using the firefox browser and says it is responsible for slowly eroding the stranglehold of ie. before july this year  according to websidestory  internet explorer was used by about 95% of web surfers. that figure had remained static for years. in july the ie using population dropped to 94.7% and by the end of october stood at 92.9%. the mozilla foundation claims that firefox has been downloaded almost eight million times and has publicly said it would be happy to garner 10% of the windows- using  net-browsing population. firefox is proving popular because  at the moment  it has far fewer security holes than internet explorer and has some innovations lacking in microsoft s program. for instance  firefox allows the pages of different websites to be arranged as tabs so users can switch easily between them. it blocks pop-ups  has a neat way of finding text on a page and lets you search through the pages you have browsed.  one of the most powerful features of firefox is the many hundreds of extras  or extensions  produced for it. the mozilla foundation is an open source organisation which means that the creators of the browser are happy for others to play around with the core code for the program. this has resulted in many different add-ons or extensions for the browser which now include everything from a version of the familiar google toolbar to a homeland security monitor that keep users aware of current threat levels. firefox  which used to be called firebird and before that phoenix  also has a growing number of vocal net-based fans. a campaign co-ordinated by the spread firefox website attempted to raise the $50 000 needed for a full page advert in the new york times. the campaign set itself a target of recruiting 2500 volunteers. ten days in to the campaign 10 000 people had signed up and now about $250 000 has been raised. the ad is due to run sometime in a three-week period in late november/early december. the surplus cash will be used to help keep the mozilla foundation running. microsoft is facing a growing challenge to ie s hold on the web using population. from alternative browsers such as opera  safari  amaya and even netscape.
entertainment,celebrities get their skates on former england footballer paul gascoigne will join eastenders  actress scarlett johnson on bbc one s strictly ice dancing.  the one-off christmas special will also star television presenter carol smillie and jessica taylor from liberty-x. each celebrity will be paired with a professional skater to impress a panel of judges and win the audience vote. the bbc is yet to confirm the final two stars who will battle it out to become ice king or queen.  veteran presenter bruce forsyth and tess daly will host the programme  which follows hot on the heels of the current saturday night series strictly come dancing. the celebrities will have to practise a stipulated ice dance and perform it at an ice rink with their partner. the judges will have 50% of the vote to decide who wins the contest  with the ice rink audience making up the rest of the vote. the show forms part of the bbc s festive schedule. ice skating duo jayne torvill and christopher dean are to front a similar celebrity ice dance show for itv  titled stars on thin ice. the contestants on stars on thin ice will each be paired up with a professional skater and will learn a new routine every week. at the end of the series  one celebrity will be crowned the winner.
entertainment,show over for mtv s the osbournes rock star ozzy osbourne has said his family will not make any more episodes of reality tv show the osbournes.   at the end of it i didn t like having cameras around the house all the time   the black sabbath singer told reporters at the mtv europe awards in rome. his wife sharon  who also appears in the popular mtv show based on the osbournes  family life  agreed.  now everybody s doing reality shows. he s done it  he s been there  he s got to do something else   she said.  ozzy osbourne said he had had enough of the work involved in making the series.  when you watch a 25-minute episode  i ve been filming all day   he said. sharon osbourne is currently appearing as a judge and mentor in itv1 talent show the x-factor alongside simon cowell and louis walsh.  earlier this year she topped a poll of the most important people in rock  for her part in guiding the career of husband ozzy and her family. she was the driving force behind the osbournes  which ran for three series  earning the family a reported $85m (£46m). the renewed popularity for ozzy has seen sales of his merchandise hit the $50m (£27.2m) mark  a record for a heavy metal artist. sales of t-shirts  accessories and action figures have rocketed since the osbournes hit screens. at its peak  the osbournes had a regular audience of eight million  with america s tv guide magazine describing the series as  a cross between the simpsons and this is spinal tap . osbourne himself was at a loss to explain its popularity:  i suppose americans get a kick out of watching a crazy brit family like us make complete fools of ourselves every week.
business,insurance bosses plead guilty another three us insurance executives have pleaded guilty to fraud charges stemming from an ongoing investigation into industry malpractice.  two executives from american international group (aig) and one from marsh & mclennan were the latest. the investigation by new york attorney general eliot spitzer has now obtained nine guilty pleas. the highest ranking executive pleading guilty on tuesday was former marsh senior vice president joshua bewlay.  he admitted one felony count of scheming to defraud and faces up to four years in prison. a marsh spokeswoman said mr bewlay was no longer with the company. mr spitzer s investigation of the us insurance industry looked at whether companies rigged bids and fixed prices. last month marsh agreed to pay $850m (£415m) to settle a lawsuit filed by mr spitzer  but under the settlement it  neither admits nor denies the allegations .
politics,sayeed to stand down as tory mp tory mp jonathan sayeed is to stand down on the grounds of ill health.  the decision comes after mr sayeed survived an attempt to de-select him in a row over allegations he had profited from private tours of parliament. the mid-bedfordshire mp had denied a claim that he was paid for guiding visitors around the palace of westminster. conservative leader michael howard has now accepted the mp s resignation  it has been announced.  mr sayeed was suspended from parliament for two weeks last month after the commons standards and privileges committee said his conduct had fallen  well below the standards expected . the conservative party had already been withdrawn the whip for a month. but his constituency association voted against a move to deselect him  with mr sayeed winning 173 of the 299 votes. after the vote  mr sayeed said only a fifth of association members had voted against him and he intended to get on with winning the election. but the vote prompted constituency association president sir stanley odell to resign in protest. the standards and privileges committee inquiry was launched after the sunday times alleged english manner limited charged clients for access to westminster through mr sayeed. mr sayeed had denied the claims  saying the suspension was  unjust and wrong  but he made an  unreserved  apology to mps in the commons chamber. he insisted that the committee s report had contained a  few errors of fact . mr sayeed has been mp for mid-bedfordshire since 1997. he represented bristol east from 1983 to 1992.
tech,gamers snap up new sony psp gamers have bought almost all of the first batch of sony s new playstation portable (psp) games console  which went on sale in japan on sunday.  thousands of people queued for hours to get hold of one of the 200 000 psps which were shipped to retailers. the handheld console can play games  music and movies and goes on sale in europe and north america next year. despite the demand sony said it would not increase the 500 000-strong stock of psps it plans to ship by year s end.  sony says it intends to ship three million of the consoles by march 2005. the company is hoping to challenge the dominance of nintendo in the handheld market. nintendo released its new ds console earlier this year and has already raised shipment targets for the device by 40%. the psp is selling in japan for 19 800 yen ($188; £98) while nintendo s ds console sells in the us and japan for $150 (£78). nintendo s goal is to ship 5 million of its new nintendo ds handheld consoles by march 2005.
entertainment,row threatens hendrix museum plan proposals to open a museum dedicated to jimi hendrix are flailing because of a row over the home of his late father.  the run-down house in seattle has already been moved wholesale once and local authorities are now demanding it be moved to another site. hendrix supporters hoped to turn the home into a museum for the guitarist.  the mayor is going to go down as the mayor who destroyed jimi hendrix s house   said ray rae marshall of the james marshall hendrix foundation. the foundation moved the building  in which al hendrix lived between 1953 and 1956  when the land it was built on was to be developed for housing in 2002. now the city of seattle wants its new plot to be used for development  giving a deadline of 22 february for the home to be moved. mr goldman said the authority had promised the house could remain on its new site and be turned into a memorial and community centre. seattle officials said no such deal had been offered.   we never said   you can own this property    said john franklin  chief of its operations department.  from our perspective  it was a temporary situation. we have not threatened to demolish the house. we ve simply asked that they have to move it.  now mr goldman is calling for the authority to pay to move the building to seattle s central district  where hendrix grew up. janie hendrix  the guitarist s stepsister  said the family were still hoping the guitarist would be honoured by having a road named after him.  that s something my father really wanted to see   she said.  it would be nice if we didn t have to fight for everything to get it.  hendrix was widely considered one of the most important guitarists of his time. he died of drug overdose in 1970 at the age of 27.
politics,debate needed  on donations cap a cap on donations to political parties should not be introduced yet  the elections watchdog has said.  fears that big donors can buy political favours have sparked calls for a limit. in a new report  the electoral commission says it is worth debating a £10 000 cap for the future but now is not the right time to introduce it. it also says there should be more state funding for political parties and candidates should be able to spend more on election campaigning.  there were almost £68m in reported donations to political parties in 2001  2002 and 2003  with nearly £12m of them from individual gifts worth more than £1m. the rules have already been changed so the public can see who gives how much to the parties but the report says there are still public suspicions. the commission says capping donations would mean taxpayers giving parties more cash - something which would first have to be acceptable to the public and shown to work.  while we are not in principle opposed to the introduction of a donation cap  we do not believe that such a major departure from the existing system now would be sensible   says its report. if there was to be a cap  it should be £10 000 - a small enough amount to make a difference but which would have banned £56m in donations between 2001 and 2003.  even without changes the commission does urge political parties to seek out more small-scale donations and suggests there should be income tax relief for gifts under £200. it also suggests increasing state funding for parties to £3m so help can be extended to all parties with at least two members in the house of commons  european parliament  scottish parliament  welsh assembly or northern ireland assembly. and it suggests new ways of boosting election campaigning  seen as a way of improving voter turnout. all local election candidates should be entitled to a free mailshot for campaign leaflets  says the watchdog. and there should be a shift in the amount of money allowed to be spent at elections from a national level to a local level to help politicians engage better with voters.  the report suggests doubling the money which can be spent by candidates  while cutting national spending limits from £20m to £15m. the commission also says the spending limits for general elections should cover the four months before the poll - as happens with other elections. electoral commission chairman sam younger said:  there is no doubt that political parties have a vital role to play in maintaining the health of our democracy and for this they need to be adequately resourced.  our research has shown that people want to be more informed about party politics and that they want politicians to be more visible and accessible.  the public are reluctant for the state to fund parties but at the same time are unhappy with large private donations.  he called for a wider public debate on party funding to find the consensus needed for radical changes to the current system.
business,german growth goes into reverse germany s economy shrank 0.2% in the last three months of 2004  upsetting hopes of a sustained recovery.  the figures confounded hopes of a 0.2% expansion in the fourth quarter in europe s biggest economy. the federal statistics office said growth for the whole of 2004 was 1.6%  after a year of contraction in 2003  down from an earlier estimate of 1.7%. it said growth in the third quarter had been zero  putting the economy at a standstill from july onward. germany has been reliant on exports to get its economy back on track  as unemployment of more than five million and impending cuts to welfare mean german consumers have kept their money to themselves. major companies including volkswagen  daimlerchrysler and siemens have spent much of 2004 in tough talks with unions about trimming jobs and costs. according to the statistics office  destatis  rising exports were outweighed in the fourth quarter by the continuing weakness of domestic demand.  but the relentless rise in the value of the euro last year has also hit the competitiveness of german products overseas. the effect has been to depress prospects for the 12-nation eurozone as a whole  as well as germany. eurozone interest rates are at 2%  but senior officials at the rate-setting european central bank are beginning to talk about the threat of inflation  prompting fears that interest rates may rise. the ecb s mandate is to fight rising prices by boosting interest rates - and that could further threaten germany s hopes of recovery.
politics,labour targets  hardcore truants  a fresh crackdown on persistent truants in england has been launched by education secretary ruth kelly.  serial truants make up one in 13 pupils. previous initiatives brought 40 000 pupils back to school since 1997  according to official statistics. parenting contracts  penalty notices and  fast track  prosecution systems have been used to tackle what has been a stubborn problem. it is thought that nearly half a million children skip school each day. tories say labour s previous success regarding the issue came because it tackled the easy part of the problem by reducing authorised absence  where parents are permitted to take children out of school. such absences are often due to family holidays.  however  serial truants avoid the classroom despite government schemes costing £885m. those missing classes are more likely to become involved in crime as well as failing academically. measures such as parenting contracts and penalty notices were adopted by most local education authorities last term and come into force in the remainder this term. in one local education authority alone 800 parents were warned they would receive a penalty notice unless their child s attendance improved. the tough stance paid off with just 24 issued  while attendance improved in 776 cases. truancy has been reduced by 5% at the 128 worst hit schools through the government s behaviour improvement programme. this is the equivalent of 200 pupils back in classes since september.  the new measures come on top of national truancy sweeps - the sixth of which will take place on monday. police and education welfare officers patrol problem hotspots picking up truants and returning them to school. held twice each year  in addition to routine local patrols  previous country-wide sweeps have apprehended 31 000 pupils dodging school. in almost 14 000 of those cases  the youngsters were accompanied by their parents. a department for education and skills source said:  every day in school counts.  it is clear form these figures that schools and local education authorities are now seizing the tools we have given them to improve school attendance and crack down hard on the very small numbers of pupils which account for almost half of the nation s truancy.
sport,federer claims dubai crown world number one roger federer added the dubai championship trophy to his long list of successes - but not before he was given a test by ivan ljubicic.  top seed federer looked to be on course for a easy victory when he thumped the eighth seed 6-1 in the first set. but ljubicic  who beat tim henman in the last eight  dug deep to secure the second set after a tense tiebreak. swiss star federer was not about to lose his cool  though  turning on the style to win the deciding set 6-3. the match was a re-run of last week s final at the world indoor tournament in rotterdam  where federer triumphed  but not until ljubicic had stretched him for five sets.  i really wanted to get off to a good start this time  and i did  and i could really play with confidence while he still looking for his rhythm   federer said.   that took me all the way through to 6-1 3-1 0-30 on his serve and i almost ran away with it. but he came back  and that was a good effort on his side.  ljubicic was at a loss to explain his poor showing in the first set.  i didn t start badly  but then suddenly i felt like my racket was loose and the balls were flying a little bit too much. and with roger  if you relax for a second it just goes very quick   he said.  after those first three games it was no match at all. i don t know  it was really weird. i was playing really well the whole year  and then suddenly i found myself in trouble just to put the ball in the court.  but despite his defeat  the world number 14 was pleased with his overall performance.  i had a chance in the third  and for me it s really positive to twice in two weeks have a chance against roger to win the match.  it s an absolutely great boost to my confidence that i m up there and belong with top-class players.
business,house prices show slight increase prices of homes in the uk rose a seasonally adjusted 0.5% in february  says the nationwide building society.  the figure means the annual rate of increase in the uk is down to 10.2%  the lowest rate since june 2001. the annual rate has halved since august last year  as interest rises have cooled the housing market. at the same time  the number of mortgage approvals fell in january to a near 10-year low  official bank of england figures have shown.  nationwide said that in january house prices went up by 0.4% on the month and by 12.6% on a year earlier.  we are not seeing the market collapsing in the way some had feared   said nationwide economist alex bannister. there have been a number of warnings that the uk housing market may be heading for a downturn after four years of strong growth to 2004. in november  barclays  which owns former building society the woolwich  forecast an 8% fall in property prices in 2005  followed by further declines in 2006 and 2007. and last summer  economists at pricewaterhousecoopers (pwc) warned house prices were overvalued and could fall by between 10% and 15% by 2009.  the price of an average uk property now stands at £152 879. homeowners now expect house prices to rise by 1% over the next six months  mr bannister said. he said if the growth continued at this level then the bank of england may increase interest rates from their current 4.75%.   i think the key is what the bank expects to happen to the housing market. we always thought we would see a small rise  they thought they would see a small decline.  house prices have risen 0.9% this year  nationwide said  and if this pace of increase persists  prices would rise by just under 6% in the year to december. this is slightly above the 0-5% range nationwide predicts.  further evidence of a slowdown in the housing market emerged from bank of england lending figures released on tuesday. new mortgage loans in january fell to 79 000 from 82 000 in december  the bank said. the past few months have seen approvals fall to levels last seen in 1995. the bank revealed that 48 000 fewer mortgages were approved in january than for the same month in 2004. overall  mortgage lending rose by £7.2bn in january  marginally up on the £7.1bn rise in december.
sport,disappointed scott in solid start allan scott is confident of winning a medal at next week s european indoor championships after a solid debut on the international circuit.  the 22-year-old scot finished fourth in the 60m hurdles at the jose m cagigal memorial meeting in madrid.  it was definitely a learning curve and i certainly haven t ruled out challenging for a medal next week   said the east kilbride athlete. the race was won by felipe vivancos  who equalled the spanish record.  sweden s robert kronberg was second  with haiti s dudley dorival in third. scott was slightly disappointed with his run in the final. he won his heat in 7.64secs but ran 0.04secs slower in his first iaaf indoor grand prix circuit final.  i should have done better than that   he said.  i felt i could have won it. i got a poor start - but i still felt i should have ran faster.  vivancos slashed his personal best to equal the spanish record with a time of 7.60secs while kronberg and dorival clocked 7.62secs and 7.63secs respectively.
tech,pandas benefit from wireless net the world s dwindling panda population is getting a helping hand from a wireless internet network.  the wolong nature reserve in the sichuan province of southwest china is home to 20% of the remaining 1 500 giant pandas in the world. a broadband and wireless network installed on the reserve has allowed staff to chronicle the pandas  daily activities. the data and images can be shared with colleagues around the world. the reserve conducts vital research on both panda breeding and bamboo ecology.  using the network  vets have been able to observe how infant pandas feed and suggest changes to improve the tiny cubs  chances of survival.   digital technology has transformed the way we communicate and share information inside wolong and with the rest of the world   said zhang hemin  director of the wolong nature reserve.  our researchers now have state-of-the-art digital technology to help foster the panda population and manage our precious surroundings.  the network has been developed by intel  working closely with the staff at wolong. it includes a 802.11b wireless network and a video monitoring system using five cameras to observe pandas around the clock.  before the new infrastructure arrived at the panda park  staff walked or drove to deliver floppy disks across the reserve. infant panda health was recorded on paper notebooks and research teams in the field had little access to the data. to foster cultural links across the globe  a children s learning lab has been incorporated in the network  in collaboration with globio (federation for global biodiversity education for children)  an international non-profit organisation. it will enable children at local primary schools to hook up with their peers in portland  oregon in the us.  digital technology brings this story to life by enabling a global dialogue to help bridge cultures around the world   said globio founder gerry ellis.
entertainment,franz man seeks government help franz ferdinand frontman alex kapranos has called for more government help for musicians  while taking part in an edinburgh lectures discussion.   for any cultural output to thrive there needs to be some kind of state input to that as well   he said. but kapranos warned against musicians being too closely linked with mps  at the university of edinburgh event.  i think the role of musicians is to question politicians rather than to go to bed with them   he said.  kapranos joined the prestigious lecture series to discuss scotland s role in making 21st century music.  there are elements of our musical output which require sustenance because they aren t self-sufficient   he said.  but so-called commercial music would benefit from investment as well.  he warned musicians against being allied to a particular party  however.  i don t know if having tea with politicians is always a good idea.   kapranos and his glasgow four-piece band have been nominated for five prizes at next week s brit awards  including best group and best album. their self-titled debut album won last year s mercury music prize and spawned three top 20 singles. he told the 300-strong audience at the university s reid hall that musicians should listen to a wide range of music and should not be restricted by stereotypes.  we say  i like this . because i listen to nirvana and korn i am a troubled individual  i m riddled with angst because i listen to chopin and debussy  i listen to kylie minogue and scissor sisters because i m upbeat and i like to party  i listen to wagner because i like the smell of napalm in the morning.  kapranos said there was a general  hostility  towards classical music  adding:  there is very little done to break that hostility other than classic fm.   he concluded:  we define ourselves as a nation by the way we encourage our creativity.  fellow speaker and classical composer james macmillan agreed:  we need to rediscover our ability to listen.  previous speakers at the edinburgh lectures series have included former soviet leader mikhail gorbachev and author professor stephen hawking. kapranos described his appearance on wednesday as  more daunting by a long way  than their upcoming brits performance.  i don t really care about the brits   he said.  it s going to be great to go down but i have actually had to exercise part of my brain tonight.   i think the government should do more to help up-and-coming artists be discovered by scrapping the entertainment licences for live venues. also they should do more to help independent record labels have a louder voice within an industry dominated by commercialised major labels.  rather than expecting the government - i.e. the taxpayer - to fork out  why don t some of the megastars put something back in  some of britain s wealthiest people are musicians who have raked it in from albums  concerts etc. there are far more important demands on government funds.  if they can fund football  why not fund music   areas of the arts are funded by government and lottery grants  so why not music  we already have the opera receiving huge grants and it would clearly be beneficial for diversity in music to have the same opportunities in other areas of the music. the only problem would be how to judge what merits state cash.  the government has enough problems funding schools and health services. if alex kapranos genuinely thinks a multi-billion pound industry should also have government funding then his own education was seriously lacking and more money should be put into that.  as a scot living in england  i appreciate the value of scottish music and culture being a success  so i can see no problem with it! franz ferdinand  travis and snow patrol are just recent examples of the success scottish music can have in the world  so we should do what we scots are good at and support our own goods!  i think the issue is more fundamental: should the government be spending money on subsidising a multi-million pound industry when health and education are in such a sorry state  the answer is most definitely no. those people who are lucky enough to pursue their passion to get their pay cheque shouldn t be looking for government subsidies. i know that if i was lucky enough to be able to pursue my dream of show jumping i would want to finance myself until i was in a position to pursue corporate sponsorship.  yes the government should fund music - it brings joy to the masses.  there are already thousands of state-funded musicians out there sitting around  twiddling their thumbs on the  new deal . getting the government even more involved would only waste money that could be put to better use.  as long as the government was funding real talent it would be a great move. i would hate to see more pop idol-type funding of music though  as it would only serve to reinforce the stereotypes that alex talked about.  only if the proposals make financial sense. franz ferdinand must be paying serious amounts of tax on their record sales - if they d had a government grant to get started they d have more than paid it back by now  so the treasury would be making far more than it paid out. however  the government has better things to spend its money on than to give charity to everyone who decides they re a musician. the government shouldn t  fund  music - it should  invest  in music and those investments should be treated like any other investment.  i think the government needs to provide facilities and for young groups and bands to form and practise. the equipment is not cheap and can be well beyond the means of many people. however  i do feel this should be the extent of their role  to provide the conditions for the talent to flourish and let it go from there.  i do agree that the government should help to fund music but there is also a responsibility held by record companies! they generally always opt for the tried and tested and tend not to want to break any moulds or risk losing any money which ultimately  the directors are in the business for! if labels were more willing to put money forward towards smaller breakthrough acts then the government wouldn t have to fork out a great deal.  yeah  why not  music should be government funded  particularly the work of modern composers and veteran bands/artists and stuff. pop music pretty much rules the earth  so more attention should go to the other fraternities  i agree with funding the arts to make it more accessible to the public but i am not convinced that pop music requires financial support from the taxpayer. there is a great deal of money generated through pop music - perhaps a tax on pop could be ploughed into the public performance of other forms of music for everyone to enjoy. perhaps we could financially penalise really bad pop idol-style music - that is  the music industry sector without any artistic merit or originality whatsoever and that which is specifically designed to line the pockets of music producers. call it a tax on music  pollution   if you like.  though i really like franz ferdinand  i have to disagree with mr kapranos. once government gets their hand into the private sector  it will destroy the creative and possibly controversial avenues the artist pursues. many years ago  this was the case with the us nea  when the government started to question what was considered art for the money they were allotting. the solution mr kapranos should pursue would be privately-funded organizations  like save the music in the us.
politics,jamieson issues warning to bigots scotland s justice minister has warned bigoted soccer fans that she wants to hit them  where it hurts most  by banning them from matches.  cathy jamieson said exclusion orders are one of a series of measures being considered in the scottish executive campaign against sectarianism. she praised celtic and rangers for their work in tackling the problem. however  the minister said stopping sectarian abuse associated with old firm matches is a key objective. ms jamieson was speaking ahead of the third round scottish cup clash between the glasgow clubs at parkhead on sunday. the sectarianism long associated with sections of the support from both clubs has become a significant target for the executive. last week ms jamieson and first minister jack mcconnell met supporters  representatives from both clubs to discuss the issue.  they plan to hold an anti-sectarian summit next month with officials from the clubs  church leaders  senior police officers and local authority chiefs among those to be invited. speaking on bbc radio scotland s sunday live programme  ms jamieson described friday s meeting as  very productive  and said putting the squeeze on the bigots would be a key aim. ms jamieson stressed that sectarianism has not been confined to football but it can act as a  trigger  for tensions and violence. clubs have taken action in the past to ban troublesome fans and supporters  groups expressed their desire to ensure that the game is no longer tainted by the problem.  ms jamieson said the executive should have a role in tackling the soccer troublemakers. she said:  we can t get away from the fact that in some instances some of the religious hatred that some people try to associate with football boils over into violence.  that is the kind of thing we want to stop and that s the kind of thing supporters  groups are very clear they don t want to be part of either  and they will work with us to try and deal with that.   ms jamieson praised the police for their action and said:  the police do want to identify whether there are particular individuals who are going over the top and inciting hatred or violence - they will crack down very effectively on them.  we have of course already indicated that we will consider the introduction of banning orders to give additional powers to where there are people who are going over the top  who have made inappropriate behaviour at football matches  to be able to stop them attending the games.  that s the kind of thing that will hit those kind of people where it hurts the most in not allowing them to attend the games   she said. praising celtic and rangers for their efforts  she said:  i don t think there is any doubt that we have seen some positive moves from the clubs.  both rangers and celtic football clubs have been involved in working with the executive to produce  for example  an educational pack for young people.
politics,campaign  cold calls  questioned labour and the conservatives are still telephoning the millions of people who have signed up to make sure they do not get marketing  cold calls .  the parties say they can stick to the rules by ensuring that their calls are not marketing - for instance by asking about people s voting intentions. the lib dems are asking the watchdog overseeing the rules to stop the calls. the information commissioner s office says surveys are allowed but people had to be told if personal data was kept. telephone call centres are expected to be used as never before by all the three major parties in the run-up to the general election.  but seven million telephone numbers are on the telephone preference service (tps) lists  which ban unsolicited sales and marketing calls. both schemes are run by the direct marketing association and backed by eu directives on privacy and electronic communications.  the rules on marketing calls apply as much to politicians as to private sector companies. but that does not mean labour and the tories are not calling people signed up to the tps. a labour party spokesman told the bbc news website the party avoided those on tps lists when telephoning people about membership or fundraising. but that did not happen for  voter identification  calls.  when we ask which party they will vote for  that is not marketing and we have very clear legal advice that it is not   he said.  so it is not covered by the telephone preference service.   he said the party always asked people if they would be happy to be contacted again and if they said no  they were not rung again. a conservative spokeswoman said the party stuck to the rules when it rang tps subscribers. she said:  we do apply tps but in line with the law. we would not do things that are not allowed in the law.  assistant information commissioner phil jones said it was classed as marketing if political parties telephoned people to encourage them to vote for them. but  classic market research   such as a poll of voter intentions  did not constitute direct marketing  he said.  if a party is calling someone who is registered on tps and records their voting intention with a view to using this information in the future  this should be clear to the voter concerned   said mr jones.  if a party rings a person who is registered on tps to ask about their voting intention and goes on to encourage that voter to support them  the party may well be in breach of the regulations.  in summary  whether a party calling tps registered voters to check their voting intentions will breach regulations will depend on the script used and whether the script is followed.  mr jones said the watchdog received  very few complaints  on the issue.  earlier  lib dem chairman matthew taylor wrote to the watchdog saying:  the advice we have received on several previous occasions is that such phone calls are illegal.  he says evidence from local lib dem parties around the country suggests there are  significant  numbers of such calls.  i hope you can therefore take swift and efficient action to ensure that this ceases   he tells the commissioner. mr taylor argues there should be new guidelines so all parties can act in the same way if the watchdog believes the rules allow parties to ring tps numbers about voting intentions and later urge those people to vote for them.
politics,england children s tsar appointed the first children s commissioner for england has been appointed.  great ormond street hospital professor of child health  al aynsley-green  was chosen by the government and will start the £100 000-a-year job immediately. he will oversee a £2.5m annual budget and have the power to look into  any matter relating to the interests and well-being of children . prof aynsley-green has also been the national clinical director for children in the department of health. he promised to make sure that children s opinions  count .   i will be drawing on my experience of working with children and young people to help ensure that those with the power to improve children s lives do live up to their responsibilities.  i want all children and young people to know that they can approach me to discuss any matter that affects them  knowing that i will value their opinion.  education secretary ruth kelly said prof aynsley-green would  strengthen the voice of children and young people . prof aynsley-green was a lecturer at oxford university  trained at guy s hospital medical school  university of london; oriel college  oxford; and in switzerland. he is described as  a proud grandfather  of four. scotland  wales and northern ireland already have children s commissioners.
business,stock market eyes japan recovery japanese shares have ended the year at their highest level since 13 july amidst hopes of an economic recovery during 2005.  the nikkei index of leading shares gained 7.6% during the year to close at 11 488.76 points. in 2005 it  will rise toward 13 000   predicted morgan stanley equity strategist naoki kamiyama. the optimism in the financial markets contrast sharply with pessimism in the japanese business community. earlier this month  the quarterly tankan survey of japanese manufacturers found that business confidence had weakened for the first time since march 2003.  slower economic growth  rising oil prices  a stronger yen and weaker exports were blamed for the fall in confidence. despite this  traders expect strength in the global economy to benefit japan  which has been close to sliding into recession in recent months. structural reform within japan and an anticipated end to the banking sector s bad debt problems should also help  they say.
sport,lewsey puzzle over disallowed try england s josh lewsey has claimed he was denied a late try in his side s six nations loss to ireland.  the wasps wing insisted he grounded the ball when he was bundled over the line and said referee jonathan kaplan had made a wrong decision.  i m positive i touched the ball down over the line   lewsey told bbc sport.  it certainly wasn t a turnover.  i was driven over and i put the ball on the ground. the whistle went and i let go of the ball.  lewsey added:  one of the irish players scooped it back after the whistle and to our surprise the referee then gave a turnover.  as far as i m concerned  that incident and mark cueto s effort from charlie hodgson s cross-field kick that led to what looked like a good try were the two key elements in the game.   cueto was also puzzled as to why his try had been disallowed by kaplan.  i don t think i could have been offside for  without a doubt  i was behind the ball   said the sale player.  the move was a planned technique  it was not off the cuff. we rehearse it time and time again.  i wouldn t say we were robbed  some decisions go with you and some go against you. today they went against us and that s tough at international level.
politics,strike threat over pension plans millions of public service workers could strike if ministers scrap their final salary pension scheme and make them work longer  warn union leaders.  the cabinet office has confirmed it is reviewing the current pension system  prompting unions representing 4.5m workers to threaten united action. they believe the plans include raising the mandatory retirement age for public service workers from 60 to 65. the government says unions will be consulted before any changes are made.  it is thought the proposed overhaul  due on thursday  could mean pensions could be based on a  career average  salary. for each year served  staff currently get one eightieth of their highest salary in the final three years. ministers will be anxious to avoid mass strike action in the lead-up to the next general election  which is widely expected next may. in a statement on sunday  the cabinet office said it was reviewing the civil service pension scheme  and hoped to announce proposals soon.  unions will of course be consulted about any proposed changes.  public sector pension schemes need to remain affordable and sustainable. people are living longer and pensions are getting more expensive.  to maintain the long-term affordability of our pension scheme  the government announced in its green paper on pensions that pension age would rise from 60 to 65.  on monday  tony blair s official spokesman declined to say whether the prime minister backed the plans. he said:  what s important is that there s a process going on  it s out for consultation at the moment  let s wait for that process to complete itself.   there is already widespread anger over the chancellor s plans to get rid of more than 100 000 civil servants. now public service unions are united against the plans and the trades union congress is discussing the issue next monday. dave prentis  general secretary of unison  said changes to pension provisions for workers in the public sector would mean they had to pay in more but would still face a raw deal.  members working in the nhs or for local government have never had high pay or city bonuses  but they could look forward to a decent pension - now all that is being taken away   he said.  what really riles me is the breathtaking hypocrisy of mps who recently voted themselves the best pension scheme in europe  but say they can t afford it for anyone else.  this is a position that unison cannot accept and will oppose. it will lead to conflict between unison and the government  if not this year then next.   mr prentis said workers did not want to go on strike and called for talks between unions and the highest level of government. mark serwotka  from the public and commercial services union said there should be a co-ordinated one day strike unless there was a government rethink. the fire brigades union said the government was planning to cut ill health retirement benefits for firefighters and other measures to chip away at pensions. pensions officer paul woolstenholmes said:  the pensions of millions of public sector workers are under threat - apart from mps and judges who have the most generous pensions arrangements in the country.
business,standard life cuts policy bonuses standard life  europe s largest mutual life insurer  has cut bonuses for with-profit policyholders.  annual bonus rates on its with-profits life policies were cut from 2.5% to 2%  while bonuses on pension policies were reduced from 3.25% to 2.5%. it is the sixth time in three years standard life has made cuts to bonus rates  despite an 8.7% rise in the value of the with-profits fund in 2004. the insurer blamed the cuts on poor share returns and low interest rates.  with-profits policies are designed to smooth out the peaks and troughs of stock market volatility. profits made in good years are kept in reserve to pay investors an annual bonus even when the stock market performs badly. slumping share prices throughout 2001 and 2002 forced most firms to trim bonus rates on their policies. standard life came in for criticism for sticking with stock market investments during 2001 and 2002. the insurer argued that shares outperformed other investments over the long term and that policyholders would feel the benefit when the stock market recovered. recently  norwich union and axa sun life both cut their with-profit bonus rates.  john gill  managing director of the insurer s life and pensions division  said that a strong stock market recovery in the past two years had only  partly compensated for losses during 2001 and 2002 . in addition  low interest rates meant that  long-term investment returns are well below historic levels   mr gill added. however  mr gill maintained that with-profits continued to perform well over the long term.  our payouts continue to stand up well against other types of long-term investments over similar periods   he said. standard life has an estimated 2.4 million with-profits policyholders. last year  the company announced that it was looking to float on the stock market in 2006.
business,pernod takeover talk lifts domecq shares in uk drinks and food firm allied domecq have risen on speculation that it could be the target of a takeover by france s pernod ricard.  reports in the wall street journal and the financial times suggested that the french spirits firm is considering a bid  but has yet to contact its target. allied domecq shares in london rose 4% by 1200 gmt  while pernod shares in paris slipped 1.2%. pernod said it was seeking acquisitions but refused to comment on specifics.  pernod s last major purchase was a third of us giant seagram in 2000  the move which propelled it into the global top three of drinks firms. the other two-thirds of seagram was bought by market leader diageo. in terms of market value  pernod - at 7.5bn euros ($9.7bn) - is about 9% smaller than allied domecq  which has a capitalisation of £5.7bn ($10.7bn; 8.2bn euros). last year pernod tried to buy glenmorangie  one of scotland s premier whisky firms  but lost out to luxury goods firm lvmh. pernod is home to brands including chivas regal scotch whisky  havana club rum and jacob s creek wine. allied domecq s big names include malibu rum  courvoisier brandy  stolichnaya vodka and ballantine s whisky - as well as snack food chains such as dunkin  donuts and baskin-robbins ice cream. the wsj said that the two were ripe for consolidation  having each dealt with problematic parts of their portfolio. pernod has reduced the debt it took on to fund the seagram purchase to just 1.8bn euros  while allied has improved the performance of its fast-food chains.
sport,rovers reject third ferguson bid blackburn have rejected a third bid from rangers for scotland captain barry ferguson  bbc sport has learnt.  it is thought blackburn want £6m for the midfielder but chief executive john williams has confirmed the club are still  in dialogue  with rangers. the 26-year-old has already handed in a transfer request at ewood park as he seeks a return to ibrox. but the clubs have been unable to reach agreement over a fee for ferguson  who moved to lancashire in 2003 for £6.5m. on thursday rangers said they would not be increasing their offer of £4m.  blackburn have said all along that they want £6m for the midfielder and williams has rejected proposals from rangers over a player-swap deal. williams said:  we are in dialogue with glasgow rangers but we have no agreement.  the negotiations will have to be concluded by midnight on monday  when the winter transfer window shuts. williams conceded any deal for ferguson was looking  unlikely  before the close of the transfer window but rangers still had a chance to seal the deal.  we have no comment to make other than we have not got an agreement with glasgow rangers   he added.  the way things are looking  i think it is unlikely we are going to.  the ball is in their court but we have not got an offer that is acceptable at this moment.  it is understood that blackburn accepted a £5m offer for ferguson from everton at the weekend. but the player is determined to return to scotland and rejected a move to goodison park. ferguson did not play in the fa cup win over colchester on saturday despite recovering from a groin injury with rovers boss mark hughes claiming it had been an  emotional and difficult time  for the player.
politics,vouchers  to cut winter deaths  pensioners are being promised energy savings by the liberal democrats  as snow and cold temperatures continue.  the party says the plans could save the average pensioner £100 every year and cut winter deaths. the government gives £200 for winter fuel to households with people over 60  or £300 where people are over 80. the tories promise to keep the payments. the lib dems would allow people to swap these winter fuel payments for discounts on home insulation. shadow local government secretary ed davey said:  the current scheme has helped some older people  but this new liberal democrat approach will go much further to end the scandal of tens of thousands of old people dying from the winter cold every year.  the vouchers are designed to let pensioners choose from a list of approved energy supplies who would compete for business by offering discounts on home insulation schemes. the plan would boost energy conservation  says the party - and insulation could save £100 every year for pensioner households  so using the money more  intelligently  than at present.
business,ukraine trims privatisation check ukraine is to review  dozens  of state asset sales as the country s new administration tackles corruption.  the figure announced by president viktor yushchenko is less than the 3 000 cases mentioned last week  but will cover many of the biggest deals. ukraine recently ousted long-serving leader leonid kuchma and has said it wants closer european union links. in a separate statement  the eu said that the us should back ukraine s entry into the world trade organisation. the comments came as viktor yushchenko prepared to head to brussels to meet with us president george w bush and other north atlantic treaty organisation (nato) leaders. he is the only non-nato member leader invited to attend the summit.  mr yushchenko recently defeated moscow-backed presidential candidate and prime minister viktor yanukovych at the polls  and has made no secret of his wish to fight corruption and make ukraine more transparent.  earlier this month  new prime minister yulia tymoshenko said as many as 3 000 firms may have their privatisations put under the spotlight. her comments raised concerns among a number of investors and mr yushchenko was seen on monday as trying to soothe their frayed nerves.  we acknowledge that business in ukraine is now shaped and 98% of privatisations were carried out according to the law   mr yushchenko said on monday.  we have trust in this business and want to defend it by law   he continued  adding that any review would focus on  dozens of companies  not hundreds or thousands . he cited last year s sale of ukrainian steel producer krivorizhstal as one that had raised concerns. it was sold in june 2004 to a consortium that included viktor pinchuk  son-in-law of former-president kuchma  and rinat akhmetov  the country s richest man  for $800m (£424m) - despite other higher offers.  vice-prime minister oleg rybachuk called on the eu to recognise the steps that ukraine was taking  fearing that should the country not be rewarded for its efforts there may be a backlash against closer relations with brussels. he said that while he understood that ukraine was not ready for eu membership  the country needed to see progress on topics such as trade and visa requirements.  we deserve an honest response   mr rybachuk told the associated press in an interview.  we understand the difficulties. we refuse to understand double standards.  ukraine may find it has a sympathetic ear in brussels  the eu has reiterated that we support (ukraine s) fast accession to the wto and if possible we would like that to happen some time during the year   said claude veron-reville  a spokesman for eu trade commissioner peter mandelson.  we have said as much to the americans. we feel that it is important for us all to pull together for ukraine to be allowed into the wto. mr yushchenko was careful not to turn his back on russia  which borders the country to the east  saying it was important to maintain  pragmatic  ties with moscow.  russia is ukraine s eternal strategic partner   mr yushchenko said.
sport,henson stakes early lions claim the six nations may be a glittering prize in itself but every player from the four home unions will also have one eye on a possible trip to new zealand with the lions this summer.  the player who staked the biggest claim for a place in the starting xv over the weekend was gavin henson. he s very confident. you just had to listen to his interview afterwards - he beamed with confidence - but although there s an element of arrogance it s good arrogance. he certainly showed some nice touches. he once showed a clean pair of heels to mathew tait when he got outside him  his defence was very good and he made some great kicks out of hand. and that s without even mentioning his majestic match-winning penalty. but i think we need to wait and see what happens because he needs to be put to the test. he needs to come up against brian o driscoll or a big french midfield. wales fly-half stephen jones was another player who impressed me. he gave good direction  he was very confident and he was a nice general for his side. he showed he can control a game. with jonny wilkinson not playing at the moment due to inury the number 10 shirt could be up for grabs and jones  or maybe even henson  could make the lions team at fly-half.  jones stuck his hand up and he certainly looks a better bet than charlie hodgson after saturday s game. some of the wales forwards surprised me because i thought they would be out-muscled in the tight five. england prop julian white is a capable player but when it comes down to selection gethin jenkins is now going to have the upper hand because he came out on top. however  i still think white and phil vickery will be in the frame. some english players did their cause no harm. i thought joe worsley had a solid game and jason robinson and josh lewsey both did nothing wrong. but it looked too soon for young mathew tait and i think it will be a while before we see him again. despite being written off beforehand several scots caught my eye against france.  tom smith has been there and done it before  but the likes of chris cusiter  jason white and ally hogg all made their mark. hogg made a couple of good runs while white had a pretty robust game - his defence is right up there. cusiter looked very lively and he could be a very good option for lions coach sir clive woodward. the star of ireland s win over italy in rome looks like a certainty to make the starting xv against new zealand. brian o driscoll is a class act. he ran some good lines against italy  made the breaks and fed his outside backs  although italy defended man on man which made it easy for him. gordon d arcy was unlucky to go off injured early on but i think you could get a henson  d arcy  o driscoll combination in the lions midfield. paul o connell just needs to add a hard edge to his game and malcolm o kelly keeps on going and seems to be putting his hand up  while shane byrne seems to be a lively character. but they will be a bit worried after the italian pack drove them off their own ball on sunday  although i used to play in italy and i know how difficult it can be. one player who didn t impress me was wales scrum-half dwayne peel. he choked late on in the second half when wales were trailing. they had good possession and he kicked the ball away - i wouldn t want him as my lions scrum-half after that.
sport,scotland v italy (sat) murrayfield  edinburgh  saturday  26 february  1400 gmt  bbc1  five live and this website  victory for the azzurri in rome last year saw scotland end their campaign without a victory. and the pressure is on scotland coach matt williams as he seeks a first six nations victory at the eighth attempt. italy have lost both their opening games at home to ireland and wales  but travel to edinburgh with high hopes.  their coach john kirwan has warned his side they must eradicate the errors that blighted their loss to wales however or risk suffering a third successive defeat.  if the defeat against wales has taught us anything  it s that at this level we can t make any mistakes   kirwan said.  in the six nations  every error you make will come at a high price.  we have to be aggressive for 80 minutes  keep calm in every situation and display great maturity on the pitch.   it will be fundamental to keep cool in the difficult moments - in the key situations of the game.  kirwan has recalled the experienced cristian stoica at centre and drafted in david dal maso at open-side after star flanker mauro bergamasco was ruled out for the rest of the tournament. scotland have also made two changes  simon webster replacing simon danielli on the wing and simon taylor returning for his first test in a year  for injured flanker jason white. taylor s recovery from a serious knee injury is a major boost to scottish hopes.  he is one of the world-class players in the tournament and you want them in your team   acknowledged williams.  despite a record of only two victories from 14 tests  williams insists he is revelling in the pressure.  i actually really enjoy seeing how you cope with such pressure as a coach   he said  optimistic despite opening defeats to france and ireland.  we were confident for those two first games and we are confident we can beat italy too   he added.  : c paterson; s webster  a craig  h southwell  s lamont; d parks  c cusiter; t smith  g bulloch (capt)  g kerr; s grimes  s murray; s taylor  j petrie  a hogg.  r russell  b douglas  n hines  j dunbar  m blair  g ross  b hinshelwood.  r de marigny; mirco bergamasco  c stoica  a masi  l nitoglia; l orquera  a troncon; a lo cicero  f ongaro  m castrogiovanni; s dellape  m bortolami (capt); a persico  d dal maso  s parisse.  g intoppa  s perugini  ca del fava  s orlando  p griffen  r pedrazzi  kp robertson.
business,us regulator to rule on pain drug us food and drug regulators will decide on friday whether to recommend the sale of painkillers that have been linked to a high risk of heart attack and stroke.  the food and drug administration (fda) advisory panel will give its verdict after hearing evidence for three days. the painkillers - called cox-2 inhibitors - are sold under brand names such as celebrex and vioxx. vioxx was withdrawn from shops last year but merck said it would consider selling it if it gets fda approval. the fda has been asked to decide if the benefits to patients justify the increased risks.  putting vioxx back on the shelves is likely to boost profits at merck and make easier any legal battles with people who claim to have been injured by the drug  analysts said.  merck voluntarily stopped sales of vioxx on 30 september  a move which caused the firm s fourth-quarter earnings to slide to $1.1bn (£581m)  from $1.4bn a year earlier. merck s shares tumbled more than 10% on the news and the company has had to set aside millions of dollars to cover the cost of vioxx-related litigation. alarm bells were rung by a research note called approve which showed that the risk of heart attack and stroke doubled in patients who had been taking the drug for at least 18 months. the cox-2 inhibitors were developed by drug companies  including merck and pfizer  because they cause users fewer stomach problems than other painkillers.  pfizer is still selling its celebrex and bextra products  though investigations have suggested that they may also be harmful to the heart. merck s announcement of a possible reintroduction of vioxx caught analysts by surprise. merck s head of research peter kim said that it withdrew vioxx  based on the information that was available to us at the time  knowing there were alternative therapies . he went on to say that things have since changed in the light of new reports.  given this new information  its is not clear that the cardiovascular risk observed in approve makes vioxx unique in the class of similar drugs marketed in the us   mr kim explained.  on thursday  david graham from the fda s office of drug safety told the advisory panel that  there really doesn t appear to be a need for cox-2  inhibitors. according to calculations presented to the us senate by dr graham in november  vioxx may be linked to as many as to 56 000 american deaths. facing stem criticism for its handling of the vioxx case  the fda said on tuesday that it will create an independent body to oversee the safety of drugs already in the market place. european regulators  meanwhile  ruled on thursday that patients who have had heart disease or a stroke should not take cox-2 inhibitors. the european medicines agency also said doctors should be  cautious  about giving the drugs to patients who have risk factors for heart disease.
business,telegraph newspapers axe 90 jobs the daily and sunday telegraph newspapers are axing 90 journalist jobs - 17% of their editorial staff.  the telegraph group says the cuts are needed to fund an £150m investment in new printing facilities. journalists at the firm met on friday afternoon to discuss how to react to the surprise announcement. the cuts come against a background of fierce competition for readers and sluggish advertising revenues amid competition from online advertising. the national union of journalists has called on the management to recall the notice of redundancy by midday on monday or face a strike ballot.  pearson s financial times said last week it was offering voluntary redundancy to about 30 reporters.  the national union of journalists said it stood strongly behind the journalists and did not rule out a strike.  managers have torn up agreed procedures and kicked staff in the teeth by sacking people to pay for printing facilities   said jeremy dear  nuj general secretary. nuj official barry fitzpatrick said the company had ignored the 90-day consultation period required for companies planning more than 10 redundancies.  they have shown a complete disregard for the consultative rights of our members   said mr fitzpatrick  who added that the company now planned to observe the consultation procedures. the two telegraph titles currently employ 521 journalists.  some broadsheet newspapers - especially those which have not moved to a tabloid format - have suffered circulation declines  which are hitting revenues. the telegraph has announced no plans to go tabloid although both the independent and the times have seen circulation rise since shrinking in size.  the guardian is hedging its bets  planning a larger tabloid format like those popular in continental europe. the telegraph group was bought by the barclay twins - frederick and david - last year  having previously been owned by lord conrad black s hollinger international. the brothers are currently mulling the sale of another of their businesses  retailer littlewoods.  telegraph executive murdoch maclennan said the two newspapers would add eight colour pages in the coming months.   journalists are the lifeblood of any newspaper  and maintaining the quality of the daily telegraph and the sunday telegraph for our readers is vital   he said.  however  action to improve our production capability and secure our titles against the competition is also vital.  many newspapers are investing in new printing machinery that enables them to print more colour pages  or in some cases  have colour on every page. they are hoping that by boosting colour it will make their publications more attractive to advertisers and readers alike. in recent months news corp s news international unit  which publishes the sun and the news of the world  the guardian media group  trinity mirror and the daily mail & general trust have all announced substantial investments in new printing plants.
sport,robinson wants dual code success england rugby union captain jason robinson has targeted dual code success over australia on saturday.  robinson  a former rugby league international before switching codes in 2000  leads england against australia at twickenham at 1430 gmt. and at 1815 gmt  great britain s rugby league team take on australia in the final of the tri-nations tournament.  beating the aussies in both games would be a massive achievement  especially for league   said robinson. england have the chance to seal their third autumn international victory after successive wins over canada and south africa  as well as gaining revenge for june s 51-15 hammering by the wallabies. meanwhile  great britain could end 34 years of failure against australia with victory at elland road. britain have won individual test matches  but have failed to secure any silverware or win the ashes (with a series victory) since 1970.   they have a great opportunity to land a trophy and it would be a massive boost for rugby league in this country if we won   said robinson.  i know the boys can do it - they ve defeated the aussies once already in the tri-nations.  but robinson was not losing sight of the task facing his england side in their final autumn international.  for us  we ve played two and won two this november   he said.  if we beat australia it would be the end to a great autumn series for england. if we stumble then we ll be looking back with a few regrets. robinson also revealed that the union side had sent the great britain team a good luck message ahead of the showdown in leeds.  we signed a card for them today and will write them an email on saturday wishing them all the best   said robinson.  everyone has signed the card - a lot of the guys watch league and we support them fully.  both games will be very tough and hopefully we ll both do well.
business,court rejects $280bn tobacco case a us government claim accusing the country s biggest tobacco companies of covering up the effects of smoking has been thrown out by an appeal court.  the demand for $280bn (£155bn) - filed by the clinton administration in 1999 - was rejected in a 2-1 decision. the court in washington found that the case could not be brought under federal anti-racketeering laws. among the accused were altria group  rj reynolds tobacco  lorillard tobacco  liggett group and brown and williamson. in its case  the government claimed tobacco firms manipulated nicotine levels to increase addiction  targeted teenagers with multi-billion dollar advertising campaigns  lied about the dangers of smoking and ignored research to the contrary.  prosecutors wanted the cigarette firms to surrender $280bn in profits accumulated over the past 50 years and impose tougher rules on marketing their products. but the court of appeals for the district of columbia ruled that the us government could not sue the firms under legislation drawn up to counteract mafia infiltration of business. the tobacco companies deny that they illegally conspired to promote smoking and defraud the public. they also say they have already met many of the government s demands in a landmark $206bn settlement reached with 46 states in 1998. shares of tobacco companies closed higher after the ruling  with altria rising 5% and reynolds showing gains of 4.5%.
sport,hingis to make unexpected return martina hingis makes her return to competitve tennis after two years out of the game at the volvo women s open in pattaya  thailand  on tuesday.  she faces german marlene weingartner in the first round.  as a competitor and athlete  i always want to win. i hope my body will hold up   said hingis.  you miss being out there in a grand slam final and not competing. it s a big difference between playing and commenting for tv. i miss it a lot.  the former world number one was 22 when she retired after having surgery on both ankles  and her last wta event was in filderstadt  germany  in october 2002  when she lost to elena dementieva. only last year she insisted that a comeback was unlikely  but speaking in thaliand hingis admitted:  i said that because i didn t know what would happen with my body.  her appearance will also benefit charities in the region and the swiss star will donate her prize money.
business,india power shares jump on debut shares in india s largest power producer  national thermal power corp (ntpc) have risen 13% on their stock market debut.  the government s partial sell-off of ntpc is part of a controversial programme to privatise state-run firms. the 865 million share offer  a mix of new shares and sales by the government  raised 54bn rupees($1.2bn). it was india s second $1bn stock debut in three months  coming after the flotation by software firm tata. the share offer was eleven times oversubscribed.  it is a good investment bet   said suhas naik  an investment analyst from ing mutual fund.  power needs in india are set to rise and ntpc will benefit from that.  analysts say the success of the ntpc flotation would encourage the government to reduce stakes in more power companies. ntpc has said it will use the money from the share sale to feed the growing needs of the country s energy-starved economy. the firm is the largest utility company in india  and the sixth largest power producer in the world.
tech,broadband in the uk growing fast high-speed net connections in the uk are proving more popular than ever.  bt reports that more people signed up for broadband in the last three months than in any other quarter. the 600 000 connections take the total number of people in the uk signing up for broadband from bt to almost 3.3 million. nationally more than 5 million browse the net via broadband. britain now has among the highest number of broadband connections throughout the whole of europe.  according to figures gathered by industry watchdog  ofcom  the growth means that the uk has now surpassed germany in terms of broadband users per 100 people. the uk total of 5.3 million translates into 7.5 connections per 100 people  compared to 6.7 in germany and 15.8 in the netherlands. the numbers of people signing up to broadband include those that get their service direct from bt or via the many companies that re-sell bt lines under their own name. part of the surge in people signing up was due to bt stretching the reach of adsl - the uk s most widely used way of getting broadband - beyond 6km.  asymmetric digital subscriber line technology lets ordinary copper phone lines support high data speeds. the standard speed is 512kbps  though faster connections are available.  this breakthrough led to a dramatic increase in orders as we were suddenly able to satisfy the pent-up demand that existed in many areas   said paul reynolds  chief executive of bt wholesale which provides phone lines that other firms re-sell. bt retail  which sells net services under its own name  also had a good quarter and provided about 30% of the new broadband customers. this was a slight increase on the previous three months. despite the good news about growth in broadband  figures from telecommunications regulator ofcom show that bt faces increasing competition  and dwindling influence  in other sectors. local loop unbundling  (llu)  in which bt rivals install their hardware in exchanges and take over the line to a customer s home or office  is growing steadily. cable & wireless and ntl have announced that they are investing millions to start offering llu services. by the end of september more than 4.2 million phone lines were using so-called carrier pre-section (cps) services  such as talktalk and one.tel  which route phone calls across non-bt networks from a local exchange. there are now more than 300 different firms offering cps services and the percentage of people using bt lines for voice calls has shrunk to 55.4%.
business,deadline nears for fiat-gm deal fiat and general motors (gm) have until midnight on 1 february to settle a disagreement over a potential takeover.  the deadline marks the point at which fiat will gain the right to sell its car division to gm  part of an alliance agreed in 2000. gm  whose own european operations are losing money  no longer wants to own the unprofitable fiat unit. reports of deadlocked talks sent fiat shares down 1.2% on tuesday  after monday s 4% gain on hopes of a payoff. the us firm is thought to be offering about $2bn (£1.06bn) to extricate itself from the arrangement. it has argued the deal was voided by fiat s decision to sell off fiat s finance arm and halve gm s stake via a capital-raising effort.  the 2000 deal resulted from a race between gm and daimlerchrysler to ally with fiat. the german firm wanted to buy fiat outright. but gianni agnelli  the godfather of the group  wanted to keep control  and preferred gm s offer to buy a 20% stake and give fiat the right to sell in the future  known as a  put option . since then  however  fiat cars have lost market share and the firm has piled up losses  while a plan to raise new money in 2003 cut gm s stake in half to 10%. for its part  gm s european units opel and saab have both had trouble  with opel management threatening to cut 12 000 jobs.  the last thing they need is additional production capacity in europe   said patrick juchemich  auto analyst at sal oppenheim bank.
entertainment,top of the pops leaves bbc one the bbc s flagship pop music programme top of the pops is to move from bbc one on fridays to sundays on bbc two.  the new programme will combine with archive show totp2  mixing new music with footage of classic bands. the corporation said the new show  aims to appeal to a diverse audience of music lovers . the move is the biggest shake-up in the history of the show  which was first broadcast in 1964 and has always been on bbc one. top of the pops was relaunched in a blaze of publicity in december last year in an attempt to reverse a long-term decline in audience figures.  the all new top of the pops was fronted by newcomer tim kash and was put together by producer andi peters  who was brought back to the bbc from channel 4 to revitalise the series.  about three million people a week were watching the show on fridays - less than half the total it was attracting in the mid-1990s - as the programme went up against popular itv soap coronation street. but despite the relaunch audience figures failed to rise and still remain around the three million mark. tim kash has since been replaced as host by fearne cotton. the new show will launch in spring next year in an extended format. bbc two controller roly keating:  it s an exciting new era for top of the pops. we want to make it bigger and better so that it becomes the ultimate pop music show for music lovers of every generation.  mr keating described bbc two as the  natural home  of top of the pops. he added:  the addition of top of the pops will also extend bbc two s offering to younger audiences.   a bbc spokeswoman said andi peters would continue as executive producer on the show. she said that issues over the exact format of the programme and a time slot were still to be decided. the programme will have a close relationship with the bbc radio 1 chart show  which suggests the relaunched show may be transmitted at about 1900 on sundays.  hopefully the audience for top of the pops will find it on bbc two.  we think that the new slot will create a buzz around the programme as for the first time viewers will discover the news of who is number one as it happens.
tech,microsoft gets the blogging bug software giant microsoft is taking the plunge into the world of blogging.  it is launching a test service to allow people to publish blogs  or online journals  called msn spaces. microsoft is trailing behind competitors like google and aol  which already offer services which make it easy for people to set up web journals. blogs  short for web logs  have become a popular way for people to talk about their lives and express opinions online.  msn spaces is free to anyone with a hotmail or msn messenger account. people will be able to choose a layout for the page  upload images and share photo albums and music playlists. the service will be supported by banner ads.  this is a simple tool for people to express themselves   said msn s blake irving. this is microsoft s first foray into blogging  which has taken off as a web phenomenon in the past year. competitors like google already offer free services through its blogger site  while aol provides its members with journals. accurate figures for the number of blogs in existence are hard to come by. according to blog analysis firm technorati  the so-called blogosphere  has doubled every five and a half months for the last 18 months. it now estimates that the number of blogs in existence has exceeded 4.8 million  although some speculate that less than a quarter are regularly maintained.
business,indonesia  declines debt freeze  indonesia no longer needs the debt freeze offered by the paris club group of creditors  economics minister aburizal bakrie has reportedly said.  indonesia  which originally accepted the debt moratorium offer  owes the paris club about $48bn (£25.5bn). mr bakrie told the bisnis indonesia newspaper that a $1.7bn donors  aid package meant that the debt moratorium was unnecessary. this aid comes on top of a previously-pledged $3.4bn package. most of this  normal aid  would be used to finance the country s budget deficit. the indonesian economics minister explained that the money - $1.2bn in grants and $500m in soft loans - was for the rebuilding of aceh province  which was badly hit by the tsunami of 26 december. nevertheless  one of mr bakrie s deputies  mahendra siregar  told afp news agency that indonesia was still considering the offer by the paris club of rich creditor nations to temporarily suspend its debt payments.  what is true is that we are still discussing... the paris club decision to find out more details such as how much of our debt will be subject to a moratorium. that s how far we are at this stage   said mr siregar.  the 19 member countries of the paris club are owed about $5bn this year in debt repayments by nations affected by the indian ocean tsunami. indonesia  sri lanka and the seychelles accepted the paris club offer  which was criticised by some aid groups as being too little. thailand and india have however declined the offer  with thailand prefering to keep up with its payments while india said it would prefer to rely on its own resources rather than on international aid. putting off payments may lower a country s rating among financial organisations  making it more expensive and more difficult for them to borrow money in the future  analysts said. separately  the indonesian government has said it will announce monthly how much it has received in foreign donations and how it has spent the money. welfare minister alwi shihab told ap news agency that this announcement should allay suspicion of official corruption in relief operations.
politics,wales  must learn health lessons  the new health minister for wales says there are lessons to learn from england in tackling waiting lists.  dr brian gibbons  on his first full day in the job after jane hutt was sacked  admitted  big challenges  but insisted the  essentials  were in place. but both plaid cymru and the liberal democrats said dr gibbons needed to change policy. meanwhile ms hutt defended her record  saying waiting times and lists were  only 10% of the health agenda. dr gibbons  who was a gp in blaengwynfi  in the upper afan valley  before becoming am for aberavon  said nhs staff wanted a period of consolidation after  tremendous change and reform . one of the biggest problems which had faced ms hutt during her five-and-a-half years as the assembly s first health minister was the length of waiting lists in wales.  in november the british medical association said nhs staff were  weeping with despair  as figures showed 311 000 people were waiting for treatment in wales  up by 2 400 on the previous month. in the same month lists in england were at their lowest for 17 years  with 856 600 people waiting for treatment. dr gibbons told radio wales:  there is no doubt that  in managing waiting lists  england has done a lot of very very useful work  and we do need to learn from that.   but he said the nhs in wales also needed to create a healthier population rather than respond only to ill health  and a balanced view of priorities was important.  we do need a consistent across-the-board approach  recognising the patients  experience of how they use the service is going to be  at the end of the day  the main test of how the service is working.  he said nhs staff wanted a period of consolidation after  tremendous change and reform . later  dr gibbons praised the work of ms hutt  saying he  agreed with everything she s done  to change the health service in wales. dr gibbons said he accepted there was a problem  but his job now was to build on the foundations put in place by his predecessor. he also acknowledged that until the waiting list issue was sorted out  the rest of the assembly government s health policy would be overshadowed.  opposition members and some labour mps had long called for ms hutt s removal after sustained criticism over extended hospital waiting times. first minister rhodri morgan told bbc wales he had agreed with ms hutt in 2003 that she would not be health minister in the run-up to the 2007 elections.  she s been doing the job for five years and eight months and  apart from nye bevan himself  (architect of the nhs)  i don t think anybody has ever done the job for so long.  mr morgan said he had only told ms hutt of the reshuffle on monday morning  and said the nhs in wales was dr gibbons   baby  now. in response to dr gibbons  comments  ieuan wyn jones  leader of the plaid cymru group in the assembly  said:  it is apparent that this reshuffle by the first minister was just changing the deckchairs on a sinking titanic.  kisrty williams  for the lib dems  added:  if the underlying policy is going to continue  then changing the minister will serve no purpose  other than to deflect flak from labour s mps   she said. meanwhile ms hutt said she hoped  that the people of wales would benefit from my investment of the past five years and eight months  asked about waiting lists  she said that waiting times and lists were  only 10% of the health agenda  and that the welsh assembly government had  turned the corner  on the issue.
business,singapore growth at 8.1% in 2004 singapore s economy grew by 8.1% in 2004  its best performance since 2000  figures from the trade ministry show.  the advance  the second-fastest in asia after china  was led by growth of 13.1% in the key manufacturing sector. however  a slower-than-expected fourth quarter points to more modest growth for the trade-driven economy in 2005 as global technology demand falls back. slowdowns in the us and china could hit electronics exports  while the tsunami disaster may effect the service sector.  economic growth is set to halve in singapore this year to between 3% and 5%. in the fourth quarter  the city state s gross domestic product (gdp) rose at an annual rate of 2.4%. that was up from the third quarter  when it fell 3.0%  but was well below analyst forecasts.  i am surprised at the weak fourth quarter number. the main drag came from electronics   said lian chia liang  economist at jp morgan chase. singapore s economy had contracted over the summer  weighed down by soaring oil prices. the economy s poor performance in the july to september period followed four consecutive quarters of double-digit growth as singapore bounced back strongly from the effects of the deadly sars virus in 2003.
politics,parties build up poll war chests the labour party received more than £5m in donations in the final quarter of 2004  new figures show.  this is nearly half of the £11 724 929 received by 16 political parties listed by the electoral commission. the conservatives were in second place with donations totalling £4 610 849  while the liberal democrats received just over £1m. the majority of labour s donations came from affiliated trade unions. there were also large sums from individuals. lord drayson  whose company powderject won multi-million pound contracts to provide smallpox vaccine to the government after the 11 september terror attacks  gave £500 000 to the party just days before christmas.  this followed an earlier donation of the same amount earlier in 2004. he was made a lord by tony blair last year. other significant donations came from retired millionaire businessman and philanthropist sir christopher ondaatje who gave the party a sum of £500 000  and refrigerator magnate william haughey obe who gave £330 000. the totals for the fourth quarter were well up on the same period of 2003  as the parties built up their war chests for the general election campaign. the largest donation to the conservatives was a bequest from ruth beardmore of nearly £400 000. the joint founder of merchant bank hambro magan gave £325 417. there were also donations topping £250 000 for the conservatives from scottish business groups focus on scotland and the institute of international research  the world s largest independent conference company.  also among the gifts to the tories were 24 donations totalling £161 840 from bearwood corporate services. this company is controlled by the party s former treasurer lord ashcroft which has directed almost £300 000 to specific marginal constituencies over the past two years. the liberal democrats  largest donor was the joseph rowntree reform trust ltd  a company which promotes political reform and constitutional change  which gave a sum of £250 000. and fast food giants mcdonald s are listed as donating a sum of £10 575. this was a fee the firm paid for a room for an event held with the work and skills foundation during the party s conference. the uk independence party  which lost its main donor paul sykes amid the row over robert kilroy-silk s bid for the leadership last autumn  took in £63 081. just £8 170 of this was cash and the remainder came in gifts in kind  such as office space and printing. registered political parties are required to set out each quarter all donations over £5 000 to their headquarters and over £1 000 to local constituency parties they receive. it is an offence for a person to knowingly or recklessly make a false declaration about party donations.
sport,funding cut hits wales students the wales students rugby side has become a casualty of the welsh rugby union s reorganisation at youth level.  an amalgamated under-18 side formed from separate schools and national youth teams plays its first match on thursday  against italy at the gnoll. but that move has seen the wru decide to end its funding of representative sides such as wales students. as a result  traditional international fixtures against england and france in the new year have been cancelled. the welsh students rugby football union feels that it is unable to properly prepare for or stage the matches. the secretary of the welsh students rugby football union  reverend eldon phillips  said:  it is a shame that fixtures cannot be maintained this year.  the competition provided by the strong english and french teams has enabled the welsh students to test themselves in high quality matches.  the increasing number of young rugby players entering higher education look for the biggest challenge  that is representative rugby  but this year that opportunity will be denied them. players who have played for wales students before going on to win full senior representative honours include robert jones  rob howley  jon humphreys  darren morris  martyn williams and ceri sweeney.
business,call to save manufacturing jobs the trades union congress (tuc) is calling on the government to stem job losses in manufacturing firms by reviewing the help it gives companies.  the tuc said in its submission before the budget that action is needed because of 105 000 jobs lost from the sector over the last year. it calls for better pensions  child care provision and decent wages. the 36-page submission also urges the government to examine support other european countries provide to industry. tuc general secretary brendan barber called for  a commitment to policies that will make a real difference to the lives of working people.    greater investment in childcare strategies and the people delivering that childcare will increases the options available to working parents   he said.  a commitment to our public services and manufacturing sector ensures that we can continue to compete on a global level and deliver the frontline services that this country needs.  he also called for  practical measures  to help pensioners  especially women who he said  are most likely to retire in poverty . the submission also calls for decent wages and training for people working in the manufacturing sector.
tech,tech helps disabled speed demons an organisation has been launched to encourage disabled people to get involved in all aspects of motorsport  which is now increasingly possible thanks to technological innovations.  the motorsport endeavour club left the starting grid yesterday at the autosport international 2005 show at birmingham s nec  with several technologies to adapt vehicles on display.  motorcycle racer  roy tansley  from derby developed his electronic sequential gear changer following an accident which resulted in part of his left leg being amputated.  i needed to find a way of changing gear and generally you do that with your left leg   mr tansley told the bbc news website.  in simple terms  i needed to invent a left foot - initially it was quite a heath robinson device.  mr tansley had to argue his case to be allowed to continue competing with motorcycle racing s governing body  the autocycle union.  at that time they wouldn t let any amputee race at all  but eventually they told me i could have a licence as long as i raced sidecars.  mr tansley s invention  the pro-shift  is designed to work with hewland gearboxes which are widely used in motorcycle racing. in addition to helping disabled riders to compete  mr tansley reckons that the pro-shift saves at least 20 seconds per lap when he competes in the isle of man tt. as a result  there has been considerable interest in the product from other riders keen to improve their performance.  i m not prejudiced  i ll sell to able-bodied people if i have to!  he joked.  another exhibit on the motorsport endeavour stand is a subaru impreza rally car  adapted to accommodate a variety of disabilities. the vehicle belongs to pararallying  the world s only rally school for disabled drivers which is based in lincolnshire.   we use the latest technology supplied by an italian company   said rally driver dave hawkins who runs the company.  the cars have electronic throttles  electronic brakes  electronic clutches - we ve yet to turn anybody away.  mr hawkins - a paraplegic himself - says his customers have included right or left arm amputees  quadriplegics  people who have had strokes and a woman who had had all four limbs amputated. pararallying uses a vauxhall astra gsi with an automatic gearbox and manual subaru imprezas. the car on display is fitted with a  duck clutch  - a switch on the gear stick used instead of the clutch pedal. it also has a second ring behind the steering wheel to operate the throttle and a hand operated brake bar.  when joy rainey started competing in motorsport in 1974 she was continuing the family tradition - her father  murray  is a former australian formula 3 champion.  and it was rainey senior who modified a sports racer to accommodate his daughter s small stature so that she could take part in hill climbs. she uses an ordinary road car by putting extensions on the pedals  a cushion behind her back and raising the seat.  but in a competition car you have to have everything right or you ll lose the balance of the car   she said.  i bring everything back to me - steering wheel  steering column  gear lever and pedals.  when she recently took part in the london to sydney marathon she shared the driving with her partner  trevor  who now does the engineering work. he designed a system for their morris minor so that the adaptations could be totally removed in under a minute. the motorsport endeavour club is hoping that putting such technologies on display will result in more disabled people becoming involved in all areas of the sport and at every level.
business,yukos sues four firms for $20bn russian oil firm yukos has sued four companies for their role in last year s forced state auction of its key oil production unit yuganskneftegas.  yukos is claiming more than $20bn (£11bn) in damages after yugansk was sold in december to settle back taxes. the four companies named in the law suit are gas giant gazprom  its unit gazpromneft  investment company baikal  and state oil firm rosneft. yukos submitted the suit in houston  where it filed for bankruptcy. as well as suing for damages  yukos has asked the us court to send its tax dispute with the russian government to an international arbitrator. it also has submitted a reorganisation plan as part of its chapter 11 bankruptcy filing.  the clash between yukos and the kremlin came to a head last year when yukos was hit with a bill of more than $27bn in back taxes and unpaid fines. to settle the bill  russia forced yukos to sell off yuganskneftegas.  yukos called the sale illegal and has turned to courts in the us in an effort to regain control of the oil production business. it also has vowed to use all legal means at its disposal to go after any firm that tries to buy or take control of its assets. earlier this month it sued the russian government for $28.3bn. analysts have questioned whether a us court has any jurisdiction over russian companies  while moscow officials have dismissed yukos  legal wrangling as meaningless. in houston  bankruptcy judge letitia clark will start a two-day hearing on 16 february to hear arguments on whether a us court is the proper forum for the case.  the threat of legal action from yukos and its bankruptcy filing in houston did have an effect on last year s auction  however. concerned that it would be caught up in a court battle  gazprom and gazpromneft withdrew from the auction  and yuganskneftegas was sold to little-known investment firm baikal finance group. a few days later  baikal gave control of the company to state-run oil group rosneft for $9.3bn. rosneft  meanwhile  has agreed to merge with gazprom  bringing a large chunk of russia s very profitable oil business back under state control. yukos claims that the rights of its shareholders have been ignored and that is has been punished for the political ambitions of its founder mikhail khodorkovsky. mr khodorkovsky  once russia s richest man  is in prison  having been charged with fraud and tax evasion and repeatedly denied bail.
sport,hodgson relishes european clashes former blackburn boss roy hodgson says the premiership should follow the rest of europe and have a winter break - but insists that a gruelling domestic schedule will not damage the english elite s bid for champions league glory.  hodgson - now in charge at viking stavanger - was at liverpool s clash with bayer leverkusen at anfield on tuesday as a member of uefa s technical committee. hodgson is a fierce advocate of the winter break employed throughout europe  although not in england - where the champions league contenders have ploughed through a heavy fixture list. but hodgson told bbc sport that while he believes the premiership should embrace the idea  he does not expect it to cost the english representatives in the last 16 of the champions league.  i just feel it is very difficult to say with certainty that teams who have had the break will have a definite edge.  i am a fervent supporter of the break. it gives players the chance to recharge their batteries midway through the season  which some suggest will give teams an advantage in the champions league.  the other school of thought suggests having a break then coming back to it puts you at a disadvantage.  the bigger discussions around the winter break should be to do with the nature of football today  the needs of football players and the way the premiership has developed  rather than one or two matches in the champions league in february.  hodgson believes a winter break carries many advantages  explaining:  as i said  it is the perfect chance to recharge batteries.   and certainly if i was still a manager in england i would be supporting any calls for its introduction.  in pre-season you get a lot of enthusiasm and energy but by the time you get towards christmas many players  having also played plenty of international matches for club and country and travelled a lot  find themselves getting very jaded.  the break gives them a chance to recover that energy and enthusiasm and  perhaps more importantly  recover their mental strength during the break and get ready for the games ahead.  the mental side is by far the most important thing.  hodgson added:  the length of breaks can vary. in italy the break was very short. you just took christmas and new year.  it was so short you didn t do anything. you gave the players a week or 10 days off  then you were training for a week or 10 days and then went into a game.  if it is longer  it is important those responsible for physical fitness give the players a programme to follow to ensure the physical strength they have accumulated stays with them.  and hodgson believes a winter break would be a positive step in the premiership. he said:  if we talk about football at elite level  which the premiership is  then i would support a winter break.  if you examine the demands of the premier league and  in particular on players who play international football for their club and country  then a break would do them the world of good - physically and mentally.
sport,o driscoll out of scotland game ireland captain brian o driscoll has been ruled out of saturday s rbs six nations clash against scotland.  o driscoll was originally named in the starting line-up but has failed to recover from the hamstring injury he picked up in the win over italy. his replacement will be named after training on friday morning. fellow centre gordon d arcy is also struggling with a hamstring injury and he will undergo a fitness test on friday to see if he can play.  kevin maggs would be an obvious replacement at centre while shane horgan could also be moved from wing. ulster wing tommy bowe could also be asked to travel with the squad to scotland as a precautionary measure. the only other change to the ireland side sees wasps flanker johnny o connor replacing denis leamy. o connor will be winning his third cap after making his debut in the victory over south africa last november.  : murphy  horgan  tbc  d arcy  hickie  o gara  stringer  corrigan  byrne  hayes  o kelly  o connell  s easterby  o connor  foley.  : sheahan  horan  o callaghan  miller  g easterby  humphreys  dempsey.
business,khodorkovsky ally denies charges a close associate of former yukos boss mikhail khodorkovsky has told a court that fraud charges levelled against him are  false .  platon lebedev has been on trial alongside mr khodorkovsky since june in a case centring around the privatisation of a fertiliser firm. the pair claim they are being punished by the authorities for the political ambitions of mr khodorkovsky. mr lebedev said there were  absurd contradictions  in the case. opening his defence  he said he could not see the legal basis of the charges he faced  which also include allegations of tax evasion.  to my embarrassment  i could not understand the file of complaints against me   he told a moscow court. mr lebedev headed the menatep group  the parent company of yukos.  mr lebedev and mr khodorkovsky  who each face a possible 10 year jail sentence if convicted  will be questioned by a judge over the next few days. mr khodorkovsky began his testimony last week  telling the court that he objected to the way that the  running of a normal business has been presented as a work of criminal fiction . the charges are seen by supporters as politically motivated and part of a drive by russian president vladimir putin to rein in the country s super-rich business leaders  the so-called oligarchs. yukos has been presented with a $27.5bn (£13bn) tax demand by the russian authorities and its key yugansk division was auctioned off to part settle the bill. the company s effort to gain bankruptcy protection in the us - in a bid to win damages for the sale - were dismissed by a court in texas.
business,us company admits benin bribery a us defence and telecommunications company has agreed to pay $28.5m after admitting bribery in the west african state of benin.  the titan corporation was accused of funnelling more than $2m into the 2001 re-election campaign of president mathieu kerekou. at the time  titan was trying to get a higher price for a telecommunications project in benin. there is no suggestion that mr kerekou was himself aware of any wrongdoing. titan  a california-based company  pleaded guilty to falsifying its accounts and violating us anti-bribery laws. it agreed to pay $13m in criminal penalties  as well as $15.5m to settle a civil lawsuit brought by the us financial watchdog  the securities and exchange commission (sec).  the sec had accused titan of illegally paying $2.1m to an unnamed agent in benin claiming ties with president kerekou. some of the money was used to pay for t-shirts with campaign slogans on them ahead of the 2001 election. shortly after the poll  which mr kerekou won  benin officials agreed to quadruple titan s management fee. prosecuting attorney carol lam said:  all us companies should take note that attempting to bribe foreign officials is criminal conduct and will be appropriately prosecuted.  the company says it no longer tolerates such practices. under the us foreign corrupt practices act  it is a crime for american firms to bribe foreign officials.
sport,coach ranieri sacked by valencia claudio ranieri has been sacked as valencia coach just eight months after taking charge at the primera liga club for the second time in his career.  the decision was taken at a board meeting following the side s surprise elimination from the uefa cup.  we understand  and he understands  that the results in the last few weeks have not been the most appropriate   said club president juan bautista. former assistant antonio lopez will take over as the new coach. italian ranieri took over the valencia job in june 2004 having been replaced at chelsea by jose mourinho.  things began well but the spanish champions extended their winless streak to six after losing to racing santander last weekend. that defeat was then followed by a uefa cup exit at the hands of steaua bucharest. ranieri first took charge of valencia in 1997  guiding them to the king s cup and helping them to qualify for the champions league. the 54-year-old then moved to atletico madrid in 1999  before joining chelsea the following year.
politics,straw praises kashmir moves the uk has welcomed the decision by india and pakistan to open a bus link across the ceasefire line dividing the disputed region of kashmir.  foreign secretary jack straw  touring south east asian countries  praised the  spirit of cooperation  in achieving the breakthrough. media reports in both countries describe the deal as a major step in the ongoing peace process. mr straw said he hoped the agreement would make a difference to kashmiris. the bus service was one of several announcements made after a meeting of foreign ministers of both countries in islamabad on wednesday. kashmiri politicians on both sides of the line of control which divides the region welcomed the move.  in a statement  mr straw said the bus service between srinagar and muzaffarabad  will be able to reunite families that have been divided for decades .  this will make a real difference to the lives of kashmiris on both sides of the line of control   he said.  i warmly applaud the efforts of both india and pakistan to make this happen.  this spirit of cooperation will  i hope  lead to many more measures that will benefit all in the region.   on thursday mr straw was in india visiting sikhism s holiest shrine  the golden temple in amritsar where he tried his hand at making indian bread or roti. he is due to take part in talks with the indian government on friday. a second bus service linking the pakistani city of lahore with amritsar in india was also announced as well as a rail link between rajasthan state and pakistan s sindh province. both sides agreed to begin talks on reducing the risk of nuclear accidents and also said they planned to reopen their respective consulates in karachi and mumbai (bombay). the mountainous region of kashmir has been a flashpoint between the two nuclear powers for more than 50 years.
business,news corp makes $5.4bn fox offer news corporation is seeking to buy out minority investors in fox entertainment group  its broadcasting subsidiary  for about $5.4bn (£3.7bn).  the media giant  run by rupert murdoch  owns 82% of the shares in the company  home to the fox television network and the 20th century fox film studio. the move follows news corp s decision to register its business in the us. 20th century fox s recent film releases include i heart huckabees and i  robot  while fox puts out hit tv series 24.  under the terms of the offer  minority fox shareholders will receive 1.90 news corp shares in return for each fox share they hold. analysts said the decision to list news corp in the us - which will result in the firm s shares trading in new york rather than sydney- nullified the need to retain a separate stock market listing for fox entertainment shares. news corp investors voted in october to approve the transfer of the company s corporate domicile from australia to the us state of delaware. the move is designed to help news corp attract more investment from the largest us financial institutions  and make it easier to raise capital. fox entertainment group generated revenues of $12bn last year. news corp shares fell 25 cents to $17.65 after the share offer was announced while fox shares were up 19 cents at $31.22.
entertainment,controversial film tops festival a controversial film starring hollywood actor kevin bacon as a convicted paedophile won top honours at the london film festival on thursday.  the woodsman won the satyajit ray award  named after the indian director. the low-budget film  directed by nicole kassell  is about a convicted child molester trying to rebuild his life after 12 years in jail. judges said the film tackled the contentious subject with  great insight and sensitivity . previous films to take the prize include the oscar-winning boys don t cry  which was about the true life story of murdered transsexual brandon teena.  british writer-director amma asante won the uk film talent award this year for her debut feature a way of life. set in south wales  the film is about a teenage single mother who becomes embroiled in a tense stand-off with a turkish neighbour. also on thursday night  the fipresci international critics awards went to aaltra  a belgian film about the handicapped; and the sutherland trophy  which was won by jonathan caouette for his film tarnation. the festival closed with a screening of the film i heart huckabees  starring jude law and dustin hoffman and directed by three kings film-maker david o russell. the festival this year also included the first european screening of the new pixar animation the incredibles  and the british film bullet boy  starring so solid crew rapper asher d.
politics,hague  given up  his pm ambition former conservative leader william hague says he will not stand for the leadership again  having given up his ambition to be prime minister.  mr hague  43  told the daily telegraph he would now find a life dominated by politics too  boring  and unfulfilling. mr hague  who stepped down after his party s 2001 election defeat  does not rule out a return to the front bench. he also told the paper he hopes to remain mp for richmond  north yorks  and start a family with wife ffion. mr hague  who recently had published the biography of william pitt the younger  also said he wanted to continue writing books and speech-writing.  he told the newspaper:  i don t know whether i will ever go back on to the front  but don t rush me.  asked if he would stand for the leadership again  mr hague replied:  no. definitely not.  his determination to stay away from a central role will disappoint some senior conservative members  who say the party needs him. tim collins  the shadow education secretary  said last week it would be a  huge boost  to the party if mr hague returned to the front bench. mr hague became an mp at 27 and leader of the opposition at 36. he said:  i feel fortunate that  by the age of 40  i had crammed in an entire political career.  i had been in the cabinet and been leader of the party  so now i can branch out into other things...it is a very liberating feeling.  mr hague added that he may have misjudged his own ambition to be prime minister.  maybe i wasn t as driven by politics as i thought i was   he said.
politics,uk pledges £1bn to vaccine effort uk chancellor gordon brown has offered £960m ($1.8bn) over 15 years to an international scheme aiming to boost vaccination and immunisation schemes.  in a speech  he called for action to reach the 2000 millennium declaration goals of halving global poverty and tackling child mortality rates. mr brown has just returned from a tour of african nations. the £1bn commitment is part of a five-point plan on debt relief  trade  aid  education and health.  the chancellor was speaking at an event jointly organised by the uk s department for international development and the un development programme on wednesday. mr brown welcomed news that the bill gates foundation and norway are joining up to put an extra £0.53bn ($1bn ) into the global alliance for vaccines and immunisation (gavi). britain  france  gavi and the gates foundation have drawn up proposals to apply the principles of the international finance facility (iff) to the area of immunisation. that could see donors making long-term  legally binding financial commitments which can then be used as collateral for raising extra funds from international capital markets. as well as pledging £960m over 15 years to the immunisation iff  britain urged other donors to contribute.  if gavi could increase its funding for immunisation by an extra £4bn ($7.4bn) over 10 years  then an extra five million lives could have been saved by 2015 and five million thereafter  mr brown argued. campaign groups including friends of the earth  the world development movement  and war on want said uk government policy on free trade was a major barrier to fighting poverty. war on want s john hilary said:  compassionate rhetoric cannot disguise the reality of the government s neo-liberal policies.  as long as mr blair and mr brown continue to push free trade and privatisation on developing countries  more and more people will be pushed deeper into poverty  not lifted out of it.
business,chinese dam firm  defies beijing  the china three gorges project corp is refusing to obey a government order to stop construction of one of its giant dams  the chinese state press has said.  the builder of the three gorges dam is continuing work on the sister xiluodu dam  said the beijing news. the xiluodu dam is one of 30 such large-scale construction projects called to a halt because of a lack of proper environmental checks. the beijing news said the company may instead choose to pay a fine. the firm has also ignored orders to stop construction at two of its other projects - the three gorges underground power plant and the three gorges project electrical power supply plant.  so far  only 22 of the 30 construction projects targeted by china s state environmental protection agency (sepa) for having not carried out mandatory environmental impact assessments have complied with its shutdown order. the china three gorges project corp could now face a fine up to 200 000 yuan ($24 000; £12 700). last week  it denied that its projects violated regulations.  the three gorges corporation has all along abided by the law and have built our projects in accordance with the law   it said.  the sepa order comes as the chinese government appears to be trying to cool the country s booming economy. previously it has encouraged construction of new electricity generating capacity to solve chronic energy shortages  which forced many factories into part-time working last year. in 2004  china increased its generating capacity by 12.6% to 440 700 megawatts (mw). the xiluodu dam is designed to produce 12 600 mw of electricity  and is being built on the jinshajiang - or  river of golden sand  as the upper reaches of the yangtze are known. it is a sister project to the main three gorges dam downstream where more than half a million people have had to be relocated  drawing criticism from environmental groups and overseas human rights activists.
entertainment,cult band kasabian surge forward indie dance band kasabian built up a cult following throughout 2004 to secure three brit award nominations.  the four-piece leicester band blends dark electronics with rock  earning kasabian places on the best british group  rock act and live act shortlists. they have also earned a reputation as outspoken and charismatic  in contrast to fellow brit nominees such as keane and snow patrol.  british music needs a kick up the arse and britain needs a new band to breathe life into the british people again   declared kasabian s singer tom meighan.   no-one s doing it at the minute. music feels like it s in the afterlife right now. we don t want people to give up on it.  the serpent s going to rise from the sea and scare all the pirates away!  meighan grew up in leicester with kasabian songwriter/guitarist sergio pizzorno and bassist chris edwards  a trio which began making music from the age of 17.  they enlisted guitarist and keyboard player christopher karloff after spotting him in a pub.  we saw his long sideburns and thought  hey  he looks the part  we ll ask him    said meighan. inspired by britpop and a mutual love of hardcore  an early 1990s genre that fused house music with hip hop beats and a dark sensibility  they added an electronic element to the traditional guitar sound.  we got a computer and we cut rock n roll up  because there s no point in going back to how it was   said meighan.  it s all about new ideas and creativity.   the band s original approach is reflected in its name  inspired by linda kasabian - the getaway driver of us serial killer charles manson. coincidentally it is also the armenian term for  butcher . kasabian moved into a remote farmhouse in rutland to record their debut album  benefiting from its isolation but also managing to sneak in a few parties while they were there. signed to the rca record label  kasabian tested the water with two singles  club foot and lsf  which reached numbers 19 and 10 in the uk singles chart respectively.  they built up their following on the summer festival circuit  opening both glastonbury and t in the park  and at a series of  guerilla gigs  at unusual venues including half time orange  a pub next to leicester city football club s headquarters. kasabian s self-titled album was released last september to widespread critical acclaim  its indie dance stance drawing comparisons to the stone roses  primal scream and the happy mondays.  regarding it as  both a fiery assertion of rock  n  roll ethics and proof that a siege mentality is alive and well in the badlands of rutland water   the nme s praise was typical of the album s reception. as 2004 progressed kasabian would score a further two hits - processed beats and cutt off - and embark upon a well-received uk tour.  we take our music seriously  definitely  but we want to have fun with it   said pizzorno.  this is not a job to us   added meighan.  this is the best life we could ever have. this is what it s all about and without it we d be lost souls. but music needs us as well.
business,bank set to leave rates on hold uk interest rates are set to remain on hold at 4.75% following the latest meeting of the bank of england.  the bank s rate-setting committee has put up rates five times in the past year but rates have been on hold since september amid signs of a slowdown. economic growth slowed in the previous quarter  as manufacturing output fell  while consumer confidence has slipped. there is also growing evidence that the previously booming uk housing market is now cooling.  house prices fell 0.4% in october  according to the nationwide  their biggest monthly fall since february 2001. last month  bank of england governor mervyn king said that the economy had hit a  softer patch  after rapid economic growth in the first half of 2004. richard jeffrey  chief economist at bridgewell securities  said it was very unlikely that the bank of england would put rates up again this time around.  there have been sufficient signs in the economy of a slowdown to stay the bank of england s hand   he told bbc radio 4 s today programme. however  mr jeffrey said he believed the slowdown in economic activity was temporary and it was dangerous to assume that rates had peaked.  i still think interest rates are going up   he said.  we are not out of the woods.
sport,slovakia reach hopman cup final slovakia will play argentina in the final of the hopman cup after beating group b rivals the netherlands 3-0.  daniela hantuchova defeated michaella krajicek 6-4 6-2 to give the slovaks the perfect start before dutchman peter wessels retired against dominik hrbaty. wessels was unable to compete in the mixed doubles but slovakia had already booked their place in the final for the second year running. argentina claimed top spot in group a with three wins from three matches. in the other group b match  the united states defeated australia 2-1.  meghann shaughnessy lost the opening match against alicia molik but james blake levelled the tie with a 6-3 6-4 win over paul baccanello  who came in as a replacement for the injured mark philippoussis. blake and shaughnessy then beat molik and baccanello in a tense mixed doubles contest to take the win. hantuchova  who did not win a hopman cup singles match in 2004  has been in good form during this year s event and has won two of her three matches.  i feel like it s really deserved this time as i ve helped dominik to get through   she said.  i think if i keep going the way i have been in the past few matches then i will be okay.  i was really pleased with my last two singles  even the first one  which was a really high standard.  you can t ask for a better preparation than to play a few matches here for the australian open.
sport,solskjaer raises hopes of return manchester united striker ole gunnar solskjaer said he hoped to return next season following a career-threatening injury to his right knee.  the 31-year-old norway international had surgery in sweden in august to transplant cartilage into the joint.  i m in no doubt that i ll play again   solskjaer told aftenposten daily.  the problem will be the speed but we re talking about eight months  time. it s going as it should with the knee. i m slavishly following a programme.  solskjaer last played for united as a late substitute in may s fa cup final win over millwall. his contract with united runs out in 2006  by which time he will have been at the premier league club for 10 years.
politics,goldsmith:  i was not leant on  the attorney general has again denied being  leant on  by downing street to make the legal case for invading iraq.  claims a written answer on the legality of the war was drafted by downing street were  wholly unfounded   he insisted during stormy lords exchanges. lord goldsmith said the answer represented his  genuinely held independent view  the war was legal. the text was released on the eve of a crucial commons vote in which mps backed the invasion of iraq. many labour mps have since indicated that the attorney general s answer played a pivotal role in their willingness to back the conflict. the government has resisted calls to publish the full advice  saying such papers are always kept confidential. in the house of lords  the attorney general faced a call by former tory lord chancellor lord mackay to now publish the  full text  of the advice - the suggestion was rejected. another peer meanwhile  lord skidelsky  said not to publish the full legal opinion would  strengthen the suspicion that the the original text was doctored for public consumption  in exactly the same way as the notorious intelligence dossier on weapons of mass destruction .  last week lord goldsmith said in a statement:  i was fully involved throughout the drafting process and personally finalised  and of course approved  the answer.  he said the answer had been prepared in his office with the involvement of solicitor general harriet harman  two of his own officials  three foreign office officials  a qc  christopher greenwood and the then lord chancellor  lord irvine of lairg.  no other minister or official was involved in any way.   as i have always made clear  i set out in the answer my own genuinely held  independent view that military action was lawful under the existing (un) security council resolutions   he said.  the answer did not purport to be a summary of my confidential legal advice to government.  former foreign secretary robin cook said lord goldsmith s admission that his parliamentary answer was not a summary of his legal opinion suggested parliament may have been misled.  the attorney general may never have presented his answer as a summary  but others certainly did   he said.  what is clear from his statement today is that he does not believe that it was a full  accurate summary of his formal opinion.   tony blair has dismissed questions about the attorney general s advice  and said his parliamentary statement had been a  fair summary  of his opinion.  that s what he [lord goldsmith] said and that s what i say. he has dealt with this time and time and time again   mr blair told his monthly news conference in downing street. he refused to answer further questions on the issue. on the question of whether such papers have always been kept confidential  tory mp michael mates  who is a member of the commons intelligence and security committee and was part of the butler inquiry  told the bbc:  that  as a general rule  is right  but it s not an absolute rule.  he said there had been other occasions when advice had been published  most recently regarding prince charles s marriage plans. the government could not pick and choose when to use the convention  he said. mr mates added:  this may be one of those special occasions... when it would be in the public interest to see the advice which the attorney general gave to the prime minister.  a book published by philippe sands qc  a member of cherie blair s matrix chambers says lord goldsmith warned tony blair on 7 march 2003 that the iraq war could be illegal without a second un resolution sanctioning military action. a short statement about lord goldsmith s position presented in a written parliamentary answer on 17 march 2003 - just before a crucial commons vote on the military action - did not suggest this.
sport,south africa sweep top awards south africa s schalk burger was named player of the year as the tri-nations champions swept the top honours at the international rugby board s awards.  the flanker topped a list which included ireland star gordon d arcy and australian sensation matt giteau. jake white claimed the coaching award while his side held off grand slam winners france to take the team award. england player simon amor beat team-mate ben gollings and argentine lucio lopez fleming to win the sevens award. burger s award came just a week after he won the equivalent prize from his fellow international players and white  who also coached burger at under-21 level  paid tribute to him.  schalk s emergence as a major force has meant a lot to south african rugby  but has also influenced world rugby   said white.  he s become to south african rugby what jonty rhodes was to south african cricket. it s amazing what he has achieved in such a short time so far in his international career.  amor  who will captain england in this season s opening irb sevens tournament  the dubai sevens  which start on thursday  was delighted with his award.  there are so many great sevens players on the circuit at the moment that this is a genuine honour   said the gloucester fly-half.
politics,amnesty chief laments war failure the lack of public outrage about the war on terror is a powerful indictment of the failure of human rights groups  amnesty international s chief has said.  in a lecture at the london school of economics  irene khan said human rights had been flouted in the name of security since 11 september  2001. she said the human rights movement had to use simpler language both to prevent scepticism and spread a moral message. and it had to fight poverty  not just focus on political rights for elites.  ms khan highlighted detentions without trial  including those at the us camp at guantanamo bay in cuba  and the abuse of prisoners as evidence of increasing human rights problems.  what s a new challenge is the way in which this age-old debate on security and human rights has been translated into the language of war   she said.  by using the language of war  human rights are being sidelined because we know human rights do not apply in times of war.  ms khan said such breaches were infectious and were now seen in almost very major country in the world.  the human rights movement faces a crisis of faith in the value of human rights   she said. that was accompanied by a crisis of governance  where the united nations system did not seem able to hold countries to account.  the amnesty secretary-general said a growing gap between the perceived influence of human rights group and what they could actually achieve was fuelling scepticism.  public passivity on the war against terror is the single most powerful indictment on the failures of human rights groups   she said. ms khan said the movement had failed to mobilise public outrage about what was happening to the human rights system. there needed to be a drive to use simpler language  talking about the basic morality of the issues rather than the complexity of legal processes. such efforts could make the issues more relevant to people across the world  she said.  the human rights groups also had to recognise there were new groups which had to be tackled in new ways as power dripped away from state governments. al-qaeda  for example  was not going to be impressed by a traditional amnesty letter writing campaign. more also needed to be done to develop a human rights framework for international business corporations. amnesty international members voted in 2001 to extend the organisation s work from political and civil rights to cover social and economic rights too. ms khan said the human rights movement would make itself irrelevant if it turned away from the suffering caused by economic strife.  we would be an elitist bunch working for the elites  for those who cannot read the newspaper of their choice rather than those who cannot read   she said. despite her concerns  ms khan dubbed herself a  hope-monger   saying she was confident the passions of the human rights movement could overcome the new challenges.
sport,dent continues adelaide progress american taylor dent reached the final of the australian hardcourt event in adelaide with a crushing 6-1 6-1 win over argentine juan ignacio chela.  dent will meet swede joachim johansson on sunday after the second seed survived a tense tie-break to defeat belgium s olivier rochus 6-1 7-6 (7/5). johansson  the boyfriend of lleyton hewitt s sister jaslyn  received strong crowd support on saturday.  it feels like home for me  because jaslyn lives here   said johansson. rochus was leading 5-4 in the second set tiebreak but his concentration was ruffled by a disputed line call and the match slipped away.  it was so close - one mistake like this and the match is over  it s tough. for me  it was clearly out   rochus said.
business,oil rebounds from weather effect oil prices recovered in asian trade on tuesday  after falling in new york on milder winter weather across the us.  with winter temperatures staying relatively high in the northern us  a barrel of light crude ended monday down $1.33 to $42.12. however crude prices have rebounded in asia  rising to $42.30 a barrel for february delivery. in london  trading of brent crude was suspended for a public holiday  but the price fell to $39.20 in the far east.  with milder temperatures expected to continue in the northern parts of the us over the next few days at least  analysts have said the price of oil may fall further - even if the decline was only temporary.  weather has been the achilles  heel of this market   said abn amro analyst john brady.  but it is winter in the northeast. eventually we ll get another cold blast.  despite a fall of more than $12 a barrel from the record highs reached in late october  the price of crude oil remains almost 30% higher than year-ago levels. prices rose last week after militant attacks in riyadh  the capital of saudi arabia  briefly renewed fears that the supply chain might be broken in the world s leading crude exporter.  the market was panicked but fears essentially evaporated... since there was no follow-up   said deborah white  senior economist for energy at sg securities in paris.
sport,ireland win eclipses refereeing  errors  the international rugby board may have to step in to stop frustrated coaches and players from publicly haranguing referees when things go belly-up.  it may have to go the whole way and have nfl-style video cameras all over the field  or slap the vociferous perpetrators over the knuckles. what the irb does not want is a football scenario where the verbal slanging matches often overshadow the game itself. sunday s explosive six nations clash at lansdowne road was a good example as ireland took another step towards their first grand slam since 1948. the game was as exciting as it comes  with a much-improved england side enraged at a few decisions that did not go their way. one can understand that frustration. there was no doubt that ireland had the rub of the green in their 19-13 victory  but the reaction from the england camp may not have endeared them to the sport s  blazers . referee jonathan kaplan was not perfect by any means and two decisions in particular made him the villain of the piece. i doubt whether kaplan would have been too pleased at the comments made. after all  he has no public recourse to criticism.  it was the same for simon mcdowell  the touch judge who was heavily criticised by scotland coach matt williams after their defeat against france. as far as england were concerned  there were queries over mark cueto s first half-effort when he went over in the corner from a charlie hodgson kick.  england coach andy robinson referred to a similar case at ravenhill in january when ulster were playing gloucester in the heineken cup. on that occasion  david humphreys kicked to tommy bowe  who touched down in the corner only for the try to be wiped out. but you cannot have cameras at every conceivable angle to pick up such anomalies. perhaps robinson was right to say the referee should have gone upstairs when josh lewsey was driven over the irish line near the end.  lewsey claims he touched it down and was in full control. however  one has to credit ireland flanker johnny o connor for cleverly scooping the ball away and blocking any evidence of a touchdown. but in rugby  everything tends to even out over the 80 minutes. the referee also missed england s danny grewcock taking out ronan o gara off the ball to allow martin corry a sunday stroll to the line. those were the stand-out moments in a classic game between the two old foes.  but there were many more  and one should not take away from those. brian o driscoll s winning try was as well-conceived as they come  while charlie hodgson s brilliant kicking display was another highlight. and ronan o gara s tremendous ability to control the game was also a crucial component. but the defining moments came with ireland under the cosh in the final 15 minutes. two outstanding pieces of defensive play denied england and allowed ireland to hold on. the first was denis hickie s brilliant double tackle in the right-hand corner. he gobbled up cueto from another hodgson cross-field kick  then regained his feet to stop lewsey from scoring a certain try. ireland s second-row colossus paul o connell was equally superb. england had turned ireland one way then the other  and the defence cordon was slowly disintegrating. england prop matt stevens ran in at full steam to suck in a few more tacklers. unfortunately he ran into o connell who hit him hard - very hard - and then wrestled the ball away for a crucial turnover. that spoke volumes about ireland s back-foot display  with defensive coach mike ford taking a bow at the end. to win a game like that showed that ireland have moved forward. it may be tries that win games  but it is defence that wins championships.
business,japan narrowly escapes recession japan s economy teetered on the brink of a technical recession in the three months to september  figures show.  revised figures indicated growth of just 0.1% - and a similar-sized contraction in the previous quarter. on an annual basis  the data suggests annual growth of just 0.2%  suggesting a much more hesitant recovery than had previously been thought. a common technical definition of a recession is two successive quarters of negative growth.  the government was keen to play down the worrying implications of the data.  i maintain the view that japan s economy remains in a minor adjustment phase in an upward climb  and we will monitor developments carefully   said economy minister heizo takenaka. but in the face of the strengthening yen making exports less competitive and indications of weakening economic conditions ahead  observers were less sanguine.  it s painting a picture of a recovery... much patchier than previously thought   said paul sheard  economist at lehman brothers in tokyo. improvements in the job market apparently have yet to feed through to domestic demand  with private consumption up just 0.2% in the third quarter.
entertainment,rapper kanye west s shrewd soul us hip-hop star kanye west - who leads the race for this year s grammys with 10 nominations - rose to prominence by producing songs for artists such as jay-z and alicia keys.  he then emerged from his behind-the-scenes role to become an artist as well as a producer. but his solo career almost ended before it began after a near-fatal car crash left west with his jaw wired shut in 2002. the resulting song  through the wire  became west s first uk hit in april 2004 and subsequent album the college dropout became a transatlantic success  both critically and commercially. west  26  began rapping as a teenager at his chicago school  inspired by the beats and rhymes of 1980s pioneers run dmc.  hip-hop producer no id encouraged west to sample old soul and r&b hits then revive them with an updated sound  an approach that would become his trademark.  i feel like a lot of the soul that s in those old records that i sample is in me   he said.  so when i hear them and i put them with the drums and i bring them to the new millennium  it s just like god s doing that. i m one with them records right there. it s a blessing.   leaving his chicago art school after only one year - a move which would later inspire the title of his album - west began his music career co-producing songs for artists mase and the madd rapper. this drew the attention of superstar rapper jay-z  who signed west up to his roc-a-fella record label to produce numerous artists on his roster. west s work gained mainstream recognition when he produced the singles takeover and izzo (hova) on jay-z s own 2001 album blueprint. incorporating samples of five to one by the doors and the jackson five s i want you back respectively  the hits were credited with injecting soul back into hip-hop.  as their success attracted further production work for jay-z ( 03 bonnie & clyde) and artists such as ludacris (stand up) and alicia keys (you don t know my name)  west announced plans for a solo album. driving home from a late-night los angeles recording session in october 2002  he was involved in the car crash that left his jaw fractured in three places.  anytime i hear about any accident my heart sinks in and i just thank god that i m still here   he later said.  that steering wheel could have been two inches further out  and that would have been it.   west s account of the accident sampled chaka khan s hit through the fire to become the heart of his completed solo album the college dropout. released last year  it was by turns smooth  humorous and sharp and largely avoided the clich&#233;d hip-hop preoccupation with guns  girls and jewellery.  through the wire was quickly joined in the uk and us charts by slow jamz  on which west collaborated with rapper twista and ray actor jamie foxx. the college dropout spawned two further uk hits and a string of award nominations. west was shortlisted for 10 grammys - including nominations for artist and album of the year - and took the best hip-hop artist  producer and album titles at last year s music of black origin (mobo) awards. now a respected rapper and producer in the influential field of hip-hop  kanye west is unlikely to regret his decision to leave college early.
entertainment,housewives lift channel 4 ratings the debut of us television hit desperate housewives has helped lift channel 4 s january audience share by 12% compared to last year.  other successes such as celebrity big brother and the simpsons have enabled the broadcaster to surpass bbc two for the first month since last july. bbc two s share of the audience fell from 11.2% to 9.6% last month in comparison with january 2004. celebrity big brother attracted fewer viewers than its 2002 series.  comedy drama desperate housewives managed to pull in five million viewers at one point during its run to date  attracting a quarter of the television audience. the two main television channels  bbc1 and itv1  have both seen their monthly audience share decline in a year on year comparison for january  while five s proportion remained the same at a slender 6.3%. digital multi-channel tv is continuing to be the strongest area of growth  with the bbc reporting freeview box ownership of five million  including one million sales in the last portion of 2004. its share of the audience soared by 20% in january 2005 compared with last year  and currently stands at an average of 28.6%.
sport,mauresmo opens with victory in la amelie mauresmo and maria sharapova won their opening matches at the tour championships in los angeles.  france s mauresmo routed vera zvonareva 6-1 6-0  while wimbledon champion sharapova was a 6-1 6-4 winner over fellow russian svetlana kuznetsova. american serena williams also won  edging russian elena dementieva 7-6 7-5 for her second victory of the event. the event is split into two groups of four with the top two from each advancing to the semi-finals.  mauresmo s win was her ninth in a row as she tries to overtake lindsay davenport for the number one spot. mauresmo spent five weeks at number one after the us open before injury ushered davenport back in front.  since then  i feel very confident on court and my game is there. i want to get the ranking back  but it s very different than before i was number one.  it was an obsession  but now i take it in a relaxed way.  mauresmo completed her first match in the season-ending championship in 54 minutes as russia s zvonareva struggled to return her serve and failed to achieve a single break point.   she got mad a little bit and i played some great tennis   said mauresmo  who was runner-up to kim clijsters in last year s final. zvonareva has lost both her games so far  having crashed 6-2 6-4 kuznetsova in the staples centre on wednesday.  sometimes not everything works   she said.  it was lots of pressure. maybe that is why i couldn t do 100%. but i was fighting.  sharapova  who lost 6-2 6-2 to kuznetsova in beijing in september  said:  in beijing  she was coming off such a big winning streak [14 matches] and she was unstoppable.  this time  it was important to start off well and put some pressure on her.  the tournament debutant added:  i love it here. the atmosphere is great.  to be here where the lakers play  you just feel that excitement. i love basketball.  williams admitted she is still some way off her best form but remained positive after two wins in two days.  it s hard to go out there and get it right but i m fighting and i m hoping   said williams.  what makes me happy is the effort. i had a really good effort today.  i m trying to add new dimensions to my game.
business,why few targets are better than many the economic targets set out at the lisbon summit of european union leaders in 2000 were meant to help europe leapfrog its way past the united states to become the world s leading economy by 2010.  but the lisbon targets are about much more than just economic prestige. for many economists and analysts they are about ensuring europe doesn t become a global economic laggard. they are also about ensuring europe can continue to compete as an equal with the growing economic giants of asia  india and china  as well as with the economic might of the united states. that s why there was a tone of urgency in the report  out on wednesday  by the former dutch prime minister wim kok. mr kok was commissioned by the european commission in march this year to assess how far the eu has come towards meeting the lisbon targets  five years on from their inception. his conclusion was simple: too many of the targets will be seriously missed.  lisbon risks becoming a  synonym for missed objectives and failed promises   his report said.  the status quo is not an option.   at risk in the medium to long run is nothing less than the sustainability of the society europe has built  it said. the report comes at a time when europe s competitive position is waning. the eu s economic growth rate is projected to be 2% this year and 2.4% next. while there has been growth in overall employment rates in europe  productivity lags behind that of the us. but meeting the lisbon targets requires a political commitment that no eu member state has volunteered so far. that has in part been due to the state of the global economy in the past few years.  as mr kok s report noted:  the ink had scarcely dried on the [lisbon] agreement before the worldwide stock market bubble imploded.   the us suffered two years of economic slowdown and recession and the european economy followed suit.   the circumstances weren t conducive to creating the 20 million new jobs promised by eu leaders in lisbon in 2000. neither were they conducive to getting governments to spend more on research and development  money needed if the eu was to meet its target of becoming a so-called  knowledge-based economy .  the [lisbon] vision is a compelling one  but in order to do it society has to change   said paul hofheinz of the lisbon council  a brussels-based citizen action group.  what you find is that a lot of people have been fighting change. you find trade unions fighting change. but also the employers  associations.  even though they tell you they re in favour of change  many are actually pushing for less competition  more subsidy and less free market activity.   but part of the problem was also linked to the original targets set out in lisbon five years ago. targets have a habit of coming back to haunt you and in the lisbon case  they covered too much  according to the wim report. economic growth and job creation were linked to issues ranging from environmental protection to social inclusion  and even safety at sea. the agenda was just too broad and as a result nothing was prioritised.   lisbon is about everything and thus about nothing   the kok report said.  everybody is responsible and thus no one.  that s why the kok report recommends that the lisbon targets be narrowed down to 14 key indicators  with an emphasis on creating jobs and economic growth. it also recommends that the european commission draw up a league table which ranks countries according to the steps they re taking towards meeting the targets  effectively  naming  shaming and faming .  rhetoric and delivery don t necessarily go hand in hand   mr kok said in a press conference alongside the publication of his report.  we don t have the luxury anymore just to exchange politeness with one another.   on one point mr kok was very clear: the european union should not try to emulate the us economy. the european economic and social model needs to change  but not so much so that social and environmental issues take a backseat to economic growth. in that sense  the lisbon agenda is sailing into unchartered waters. the kok report tries to do away with a belief that jobs need to be sacrificed at the altar of economic growth.  it s very ambitious   said john palmer  political director at the european policy centre  a brussels-based think-tank.  this is something that no advanced economy in the world has tried to do. it s going to require quite new and innovative policies.  but some analysts believe that the kok report doesn t come up with the sort of innovative policies and thinking needed to make the lisbon targets a reality. for example  it recommends putting in place policies which encourage women and older people to remain in the workforce. but it doesn t say how companies should be convinced to do this. it will be up to the incoming president of the european commission  jose manuel barroso  to adopt mr kok s recommendations and press them on eu governments. mr barroso has said that the eu s competitiveness will be his top priority. he expects his five-year term in office to be judged on europe s success in meeting the lisbon agenda.
politics,hague s six-figure earnings shown the rewards of leaving front-bench politics are shown in the latest annual register of members  interests.  the register shows former tory leader william hague earning up to £820 000 on top of his mps  salary  much of it from speaking fees. his former shadow chancellor michael portillo makes up to £560 000 a year - partly because of speeches and tv work. ex-health secretary alan milburn earned up to £85 000 from speeches  articles and advice while not in the cabinet.  mr milburn was away from the frontbench for just more than a year between stepping down as health secretary and becoming labour s election supremo. his declared interests include £20 000 from newspaper articles and fees of up to £35 000 for four speeches. he also commanded a salary of between £25 000 and £35 000 for being on investment company bridgepoint capital s european advisory committee. his time out of office will  however  have lost him his £71 433 minister s salary. mr hague s work outside parliament included two one-man shows  which with other speaking fees netted him up to £480 000. he also earned up to £195 000 for a weekly column in the news of the world  and between £5 000 and £10 000 for presenting bbc 2 s have i got news for you. mr hague was also paid an undisclosed amount for the newspaper serialisation of his biography of william pitt the younger and up to £135 00 for work as an adviser to various companies.  former defence secretary michael portillo makes some of his money as a non-executive director of bae systems. he is to stand down as an mp at the next election. and former foreign secretary robin cook was paid between £45 001 and £50 000 for the paperback edition of his book about his resignation from government. his declared income of up to £205 000 also includes payments for being a consultant to the tote and for his regular column in the guardian newspaper. the register also shows former home office minister ann widdecombe declaring a £100 000 advance for her third and fourth novels. she also received up to £30 000 for acting as the guardian s agony aunt and between £5 001 and £10 000 for appearing on itv s celebrity fit club. david blunkett has become a paid adviser to indepen consulting limited now he is not home secretary - he helps them with seminars about the relationship between government and business. he earns between £5 001and £10 000 for the work.  tony blair s entry confirms that king abdullah of jordan paid for him to fly from a holiday in egypt to official discussions - and for a sightseeing tour to wadi rum. tory leader michael howard s only fresh entry is a christmas hamper from the sultan of brunei. he also declares a trip to mexico last year to address executives of news international  and helicopter and private jet travel paid for by supporters. liberal democrat leader charles kennedy registered donations to his office from supporters  a free ticket to last year s bafta awards and rent from a single-bedroom flat in london. the register only contains new information for december 2004 - but monday saw the publication of the annual review of the register  with the year s details. the payments are shown in bands of up £5 000  making it difficult to calculate the exact earnings.
politics,howard pitches for uk ethnic vote michael howard is to make a pitch for britain s ethnic vote urging people who feel  taken for granted  by tony blair to vote conservative.  he will say conservatives  share the same values  as the uk s minorities. and that he wants to build a  better britain  where everyone  whatever the colour of their skin or religion  can  make the most of their talents . but the tory leader will argue against positive discrimination saying it is  outdated and unjust .   it sets family against family and it leads ethnic communities to doubt their own abilities   he will argue. mr howard - himself the son of immigrants - will acknowledge that racial discrimination still exists in the uk.  people from ethnic communities  for example  still earn less than their white counterparts   he will say before arguing the answer to helping everyone to get on was  free enterprise  free trade  free speech . the tory leader will also call for religious tolerance arguing that hindus and sikhs as well as muslims got  caught in the downdraft of islamaphobia which was one of the terrible side effects of 9/11 .  mr howard will make his speech during a visit to support tory parliamentary hopefuls robert light and sayeeda warsi -  the first british muslim woman  selected to run for mp as a conservative candidate. he will attack labour s record in government over issues such as tax and he will set out tory plans for an immigration quota to be set by mps. mr howard will also attack the lib dems for wanting to abolish faith schools  introduce compulsory sex education from the age of seven  and  give contraceptives out in schools from the age of 11 .  so i say to all those people from ethnic minorities who feel mr blair and the liberal democrats take their votes for granted - come join us   he will say. lib dem president simon hughes branded mr howard  arrogant and wrong  for claiming the tories were the  natural party  for britain s ethnic minorities.  given the tories  considerably reduced support in urban areas  where many black and asian britons live  during their time in power  the evidence simply does not support his claims that the conservatives are the party for these communities   he said.
tech,loyalty cards idea for tv addicts viewers could soon be rewarded for watching tv as loyalty cards come to a screen near you.  any household hooked up to sky could soon be using smartcards in conjunction with their set-top boxes. broadcasters such as sky and itv could offer viewers loyalty points in return for watching a particular channel or programme. sky will activate a spare slot on set-top boxes in january  marketing magazine new media age reported.  sky set-top boxes have two slots. one is for the viewer s decryption card  while the other has been dormant until now.  loyalty cards have become a common addition to most wallets  as high street brands rush to keep customers with a series of incentives offered by store cards. now similar schemes look set to enter the highly competitive world of multi-channel tv. viewers who stay loyal to a particular tv channel could be rewarded by free tv content or freebies from retail partners. broadcasters aiming content at children could offer smartcards which gives membership to exclusive content and clubs.  parents could pre-pay for some content  as a kind of tv pocket money card   said nigel whalley  managing director of media consultancy decipher.  viewers could even be rewarded for watching ad breaks  with ideas such as ad bingo being touted by firms keen to make money out of the new market  said mr whalley. credit cards that have been chipped could be used in set-top boxes to pay for movies  gambling and gaming.  the idea of an intelligent card in boxes offers a lot of possibilities. it will be down to the ingenuity of the content players   said mr whalley. for the bbc  revenue-generating activity will be of little interest but the new development may prompt changes to freeview set-top boxes  said mr whalley. currently most freeview boxes do not have a slot which would allow viewers to use a smartcard. some 7.4 million households have sky boxes and sky is hoping to increase this to 10 million by 2010. loyalty cards could play a role in this  particularly in reducing the number of people who cancel their sky subscriptions  said ian fogg  an analyst with jupiter research.
sport,mcclaren eyes uefa cup top spot steve mcclaren wants his middlesbrough team to win their uefa cup group by beating partizan belgrade.  boro have already qualified for the knockout stages alongside partizan and villareal  at the expense of lazio. but boss mcclaren is looking for a victory which would mean they avoid a team that has played in the champions league in friday s third-round draw.  to need a win to finish top is fantastic  but it is going to be a tough one   mcclaren said.  when the draw was made  i thought it was the toughest group of them all - and so it has proved.  lazio were favourites  villarreal have been semi-finalists  and partizan have fantastic experience in europe.  the pleasing thing is we did the business in the first two games.  winning those two has put us in a great position and it has been a fantastic experience playing these teams.
entertainment,lit idol begins search for author the second pop idol-style search for literary talent has begun with the help of the brother of simon cowell.  writer tony cowell is among the judges who will hear aspiring writers read their work aloud. the winner gets a deal with literary agency curtis brown.  i m not going to be the mr nasty of books   said cowell  54  in reference to his brother s caustic remarks on tv shows pop idol and the x-factor. the 2004 winner  paul cavanagh  went on to sign a deal with harper collins.  this year  the competition is specifically looking for a crime writer. writers must submit up to 10 000 words from the opening chapters of their novels and a synopsis. professional readers will choose a shortlist of five following the competition closing date on 14 january.  the final five will then have to read their work in front of judging panel. a public vote will also take place  which will account for 25% of the final decision. the winner will be announced at the london book fair on 14 march next year and could be screened on tv.  it s very  very hard to find an agent and extremely difficult  without an agent  to get a publisher to look at your work   said cowell.  people do fall by the wayside and the more avenues we can provide for aspiring authors  the better   he added. paul cavanagh  a former university professor and health care consultant from ontario in canada  was one of 1 466 aspiring novelists to enter the first contest. he lifted the inaugural lit idol prize after reading aloud an excerpt of his work northwest passage. three film studios are said to be interested in buying film rights for the book  even though it is not finished yet.
sport,hong kong in 2011 world cup bid hong kong is hoping to join japan as co-host of the 2011 rugby world cup.  japan has applied to host the tournament on its own  with the aim of taking it outside rugby s traditional strongholds for the first time. but hong kong rugby football union (hkrfu) chairman john molloy has called for the territory to host one of the pools and a quarter-final. the japanese rugby football union (jrfu) says it has yet to receive a formal presentation from the hkrfu.  at this stage  we are only considering hosting the event by ourselves   said jrfu secretary koji tokumasu.  we cannot examine any proposal unless we get it in a definitive form.  japan faces stiff competition in the form of south africa and new zealand to host the event in seven years  time.   until now  the world cup has been held in countries from the six nations or tri-nations   said tokumasu.  we think  and the irb thinks  that it is time for rugby to go global.  japan is ready to host the tournament and we are looking forward to welcoming the world of rugby to japan.  tokumasu added that the 2002 football world cup  co-hosted by japan and south korea  had been a huge success.  as well as having the infrastructure in place  japan also has the commercial clout to host one of sport s top competitions   he said. last year  japan launched its first professional rugby league and it has the fourth largest number of registered players (125 508) in the world after england  south africa and france.
tech,web radio takes spanish rap global spin the radio dial in the us and you are likely to find plenty of spanish-language music. but what you will not find is much spanish-language hip-hop.  hip-hop and rap are actually quite popular in the spanish-speaking world  but local artists are having trouble marketing their work abroad. but now  a us company is bringing rap and hip-hop en espanol to computer users everywhere. los caballeros de plan g are one of mexico s hottest hip-hop acts. they have a devoted fan base in their native monterrey. but most mexican hip-hop fans  not to mention fans in most of the spanish-speaking world  rarely get a chance to hear the group s tracks on the radio.   you can t really just go on the radio and listen to hip-hop in spanish... it s just not accessible   says manuel millan  a native of san diego  california.  it s really hard for the spanish hip-hop scene to get into mainstream radio. you usually have a very commercialised sound and the groups are not really known around the country or around the world.  millan and two friends set out to change that - they wanted to make groups like los caballeros de plan g accessible to fans globally.  mainstream radio stations were not going to play this kind of music  and starting their own broadcast station was economically impossible. so  millan and his friends launched a website called latinohiphopradio.com. the name says it all: it is web-based radio  devoted to the hottest spanish language rap and hip-hop tracks. the site  which is in both in english and spanish  is meant to be easy to navigate. all the user has to do is download a media player. there are no djs. it is just music streamed over the net for free. suddenly  with the help of the website  los caballeros de plan g are producing  export quality  rap.  the web might be just the right medium for spanish language hip-hop right now. the genre is in what millan calls its  infant stage . but the production values are improving  and artists such as argentina s mustafa yoda are pushing to make it better and better. mustafa yoda is currently one of the hottest tracks on latinohiphopradio.com.  he s considered the eminem of argentina  and the latin american hip-hop scene   millan says.  he really hasn t had that much exposure as far as anywhere in the world  but he s definitely the one to look out for as far as becoming the next big thing in the spanish-speaking world.  currently  the chilean group makisa is also in latinohiphopradio.com s top 10  as is cuban artist papo record.  every country s got it s own cultural differences and they try to put those into their own songs   millan says. latinohiphopradio.com has been up and running for a couple of months now. the site has listeners from across the spanish speaking world. right now  mexico leads the way  accounting for about 50% of listeners. but web surfers in spain are logging in as well - about 25% of the web station s traffic comes from there. that is not surprising as many consider spain to be the leader in spanish-language rap and hip-hop. millan says that spain is actually just behind the united states and france in terms of overall rap and hip-hop production. that might be changing  though  as more and more latin american artists are finding audiences.  but one spaniard is still firmly in latinohiphopradio.com s top 10. his name is tote king and manuel millan says that he is the hip-hop leader in spain. on his track uno contra veinte emcees  or one against 20 emcees  tote king shows he is well aware of that fact.  it s basically him bragging that he s one of the best emcees in spain right now   millan says.  and it s pretty much true. he has the tightest productions  and his rap flow is impeccable  it s amazing.  latinohiphopradio.com is hoping to expand in the coming year. millan says they want to include more music and more news from the world of spanish language hip-hop and rap.  clark boyd is technology correspondent for the world  a bbc world service and wgbh-boston co-production.
business,us trade gap hits record in 2004 the gap between us exports and imports hit an all-time high of $671.7bn (£484bn) in 2004  latest figures show.  the commerce department said the trade deficit for all of last year was 24.4% above the previous record - 2003 s imbalance of $496.5bn. the deficit with china  up 30.5% at $162bn  was the largest ever recorded with a single country. however  on a monthly basis the us trade gap narrowed by 4.9% in december to £56.4bn. the us consumer s appetite for all things from oil to imported cars  and even wine and cheese  reached record levels last year and the figures are likely to spark fresh criticism of president bush s economic policies.  democrats claim the administration has not done enough to clamp down on unfair foreign trade practices. for example  they believe china s currency policy - which us manufacturers claim has undervalued the yuan by as much as 40% - has given china s rapidly expanding economy an unfair advantage against us competitors.  meanwhile  the bush administration argues that the us deficit reflects the fact the america is growing at faster rate than the rest of the world  spurring on more demand for imported goods. some economists say this may allow an upward revision of us economic growth in the fourth quarter. but others point out that the deficit has reached such astronomical proportions that foreigners many choose not to hold as many dollar-denominated assets  which may in turn harm growth. for all of 2004  us exports rose 12.3% to $1.15 trillion  but imports rose even faster by 16.3% to a new record of $1.76 trillion. foreign oil exports surged by 35.7% to a record $180.7bn  reflecting the rally in global oil prices and increasing domestic demand. imports were not affected by the dollar s weakness last year.  we expect the deficit to continue to widen in 2005 even if the dollar gets back to its downward trend   said economist marie-pierre ripert at ixis.
entertainment,rapper jay-z becomes label boss rap star jay-z is to become a record company executive after being put in charge of one of hip-hop s most influential labels  def jam.  jay-z  who said he would make no more music after 2003 s the black album  will become the company s president and chief executive from january. def jam s parent company  universal  made the appointment after buying jay-z s roc-a-fella label. def jam s artists include ll cool j  dmx  ludacris  ja rule and ashanti. jay-z will continue to run roc-a-fella  which he founded with damon dash in 1995 and has kanye west and beanie sigel on its roster. universal said on wednesday it had bought the 50% of roc-a-fella it did not already own.  antonio  la  reid  chairman of the island def jam music group  said:  i can think of no-one more relevant and credible in the hip-hop community to build upon def jam s fantastic legacy.  he hoped jay-z would  move the company into its next groundbreaking era   he added. jay-z  real name shawn carter  said:  i have inherited two of the most important brands in hip-hop  def jam and roc-a-fella.   i feel this is a giant step for me and the entire artist community.  one of the most successful and respected rap stars of the last eight years  jay-z s hits have included hard knock life  dirt off your shoulder and 03 bonnie and clyde with his girlfriend beyonce knowles. he said he would retire after the black album  but has just released an album and been on an ill-fated tour with r kelly. def jam was founded in 1984 by russell simmons and producer rick rubin and signed artists including run-dmc  the beastie boys and public enemy.
sport,prodigy monfils blows away gaudio french prodigy gael monfils underlined his huge promise by beating french open champion gaston gaudio 6-4 7-6 (7-4) in the first round of the qatar open.  the 18-year-old wild card won three of the four junior grand slam events last year  including wimbledon. fabrice santoro  the 2000 champion  beat sweden s thomas johansson 6-4 6-2 but fourth seed mikhail youzhny lost 6-3 7-6 (7-3) to rafael nadal. roger federer plays greg rusedski in the second round on wednesday. monfils  who was given a wildcard into the tournament  said:  this is my first win over a top 10 player and i am delighted.  i play my best tennis when i am fired up on the court and the reason i won today was because i was able to play my natural  attacking game   he said.  of course i was a bit tired in the second set. but i was confident i could survive had there been a third set.
entertainment,berlin hails european cinema organisers say this year s berlin film festival  which opens on thursday with period epic man to man  will celebrate a revitalised european cinema.  of the 21 films in competition for the golden and silver bear awards  more than half are from europe with france particularly well represented. festival director dieter kosslick says this strong showing signals  a new consciousness for european films .  they re on an incredible winning streak   he told the reuters agency.  this isn t to say there aren t any good american films   he continued.  it s just that there are more good european films.   however  mr kosslick refused to accept that widespread opposition to the iraq war had turned audiences against hollywood imports.  there is no anti-american mood   he said. some 350 films will be screened at this year s festival  with a further 300 shown at the european film market that runs alongside it. more than a dozen celebrities are scheduled to attend  among them will smith  kevin spacey and keanu reeves. but mr kosslick says more would be coming had the academy awards not been brought forward to 27 february.  i m not worried that we won t be able to fill the red carpet with stars   he said  though he admitted the festival may be moved to january next year to avoid a similar clash. the 10-day berlinale runs until 20 february.
sport,beckham relief as real go through david beckham expressed his relief at real madrid s passage to the champions league knockout phase.  after real s 3-0 win at roma  the england skipper admitted another season of under-achievement would not be tolerated at the bernabeu stadium. beckham said:  it s expected of madrid to get through  but it s a relief for the club and players to have won.  we lost momentum last season but we cannot afford to to go another season without winning anything.  real s finish as runners-up in their champions league group means they cannot face his old club manchester united in the next round. but real could be drawn against other premiership hopefuls  arsenal or chelsea  who won their respective groups.  it s going to be great whoever we play  even if we don t get either of the two english teams.
entertainment,byrds producer melcher dies at 62 record producer terry melcher  who was behind hits by the byrds  ry cooder and the beach boys  has died aged 62.  the son of actress doris day  he helped write kokomo for the beach boys  which was used in the movie cocktail  earning a 1988 golden globe nomination. he also produced mr tambourine man for the byrds  as well as other his such as turn  turn turn. melcher died on friday night at his home in beverly hills  california  after a long battle with skin cancer. he joined columbia records as a producer in the mid-1960s  and also worked with gram parsons and the mamas and the papas.  earlier in his career  melcher had hits as part of duo called bruce & terry  with future beach boy bruce johnston  which evolved into the rip chords group. melcher also worked closely with his mother  producing the doris day show and helping to run her charitable activities. in 1969 his name became linked with the charles manson murders  which saw the deaths of actress sharon tate and four of her friends at a home which melcher once rented. rumours circulated that melcher - who knew manson - was the killer s real target  because he had turned him down for a record contract. but los angeles police discounted the rumours  pointing out melcher had moved to malibu  and manson knew of his new address.
entertainment,animation charms japan box office oscar-winning director hayao miyazaki s latest film has set a new japanese box office record  with 1.5bn yen ($14.3m) in two days  according to reports.  howl s moving castle is the follow-up to miyazaki s spirited away  which won best animation at last year s oscars. it is based on the children s book by english writer diana wynne jones. it has registered the highest opening weekend takings of any japanese film in the country  according to trade publication screen daily.  the film is about an 18-year-old girl who is trapped in an old woman s body after being put under a spell by a witch. its two-day takings represented 1.1 million cinema admissions  screen daily said. the film s distributor toho expects 40 million people to see it in total - almost one third of the country s population - it added. the film won the golden osella for outstanding technical contribution at this year s venice film festival.
politics,chancellor rallies labour voters gordon brown has issued a rallying cry  telling supporters the  stakes are too high  to stay at home or protest vote in the forthcoming general election.  the chancellor said the vote - expected to fall on 5 may - will give a  clear and fundamental  choice between labour investment and conservative cuts. speaking at labour s spring conference in gateshead  mr brown claimed the nhs was not safe in conservative hands. he said tory plans to cut £35bn tax would  cut deep into public service .  to a packed audience at gateshead s sage centre  the chancellor said the cuts proposed by shadow chancellor oliver letwin were the equivalent of sacking every teacher  gp and nurse in the country  he told activists. laying into the conservative s record in government he said:  i give you this promise - with labour  britain will never return to the mistakes of erm and 10% inflation  15% interest rates  £3bn in lost reserves  250 000 repossessed  one million in negative equity and three million unemployed.  never again tory boom and bust.   this will be the central dividing line at the election  between a conservative party taking britain back and planning deep cuts of £35bn in our services  and a labour government taking britain forward  which on a platform of stability will reform and renew our hospitals  schools and public services and  i am proud to say  spend by 2008 £60bn more.  turning to the economy  the chancellor pledged to continue economic stability and growth in a third term in power.  he said after seven years labour had transformed from a party not trusted with the economy to  the only party trusted with the economy . it was now a  party not just of employees  but of employers and managers   he said. in the speech - which prompted a standing ovation from an audience clearly  warm  to mr brown - he also promised to end teenage unemployment within the next five years. he also highlighted plans for 100% debt relief for the world s poorest countries  a national minimum wage for 16 and 17-year-olds and the creation of a network of children s centres and flexibility in maternity leave. the prime minister is to take part later on saturday in an interactive question and answer session  fielding queries sent in by e-mail  text message and telephone as part of labour s attempt to engage the public in their campaign.
sport,chelsea denied by james heroics a brave defensive display  led by keeper david james  helped manchester city hold the leaders chelsea.  after a quiet opening  james denied damien duff  jiri jarosik and mateja kezman  while paul bosvelt cleared william gallas  header off the line. robbie fowler should have scored for the visitors but sent his header wide. chelsea had most of the possession in the second half but james kept out frank lampard s free-kick and superbly tipped the same player s volley wide. city went into the game with the proud record of being the only domestic team to beat chelsea this season. and there was little to alarm them in the first 30 minutes as chelsea - deprived of arjen robben and didier drogba through injury - struggled to pose much of a threat. indeed  it was the visitors who looked likelier to enliven a drab opening played at a lethargic pace. shaun wright-phillips - watched by england boss sven-goran eriksson - showed his customary trickery to burst into the right of the area and deliver a dangerous ball  which was blocked by john terry. but chelsea suddenly stepped up a gear and created a flurry of chances. first  duff got round ben thatcher and blasted in a shot that james parried to kezman  who turned the ball wide.  soon afterwards  jarosik found space in the area to powerfully head lampard s corner goalwards but james tipped the ball over. chelsea were now looking more like premiership leaders and james kept out kezman s fierce drive before bosvelt and james combined to clear gallas  header from duff s corner. city broke swiftly up the field and the last chance of a frenetic spell should have resulted in fowler celebrating his 150th premiership goal. wright-phillips raced down the left and crossed to fowler but city s lone man up front  left free by terry s slip  contrived to head wide when it seemed a breakthrough was certain. the second half started as quietly as the first  although james was forced to divert a cross from the lively duff away from eidur gudjohnsen s path. there was a nasty moment for petr cech  looking for a ninth straight clean sheet in the league  when a series of ricochets saw fowler chase a loose ball in the area and collide accidently with the czech republic stopper. another quiet spell followed  which duff interrupted with a surging run that was halted illegally on the edge of the penalty area by bosvelt. lampard stepped up to blast a shot through the wall and james somehow blocked it with his legs. another timely challenge  this time from richard dunne in time added on  prevented gudjohnsen from getting in a shot. there was still time for james to produce a sensational save to tip lampard s volley round the post.  cech  paulo ferreira  gallas  terry  bridge  jarosik (tiago 56)  lampard  makelele  duff  gudjohnsen  kezman (cole 63).  subs not used: johnson  smertin  cudicini.  makelele  gudjohnsen.  james  mills  distin  dunne  thatcher  shaun wright-phillips  bosvelt  barton  sibierski (mcmanaman 85)  musampa  fowler.  subs not used: macken  weaver  onuoha  jordan.  bosvelt.  42 093  h webb (s yorkshire).
sport,chelsea sack mutu chelsea have sacked adrian mutu after he failed a drugs test.  the 25-year-old tested positive for a banned substance - which he later denied was cocaine - in october. chelsea have decided to write off a possible transfer fee for mutu  a £15.8m signing from parma last season  who may face a two-year suspension. a statement from chelsea explaining the decision read: we want to make clear that chelsea has a zero tolerance policy towards drugs.  mutu scored six goals in his first five games after arriving at stamford bridge but his form went into decline and he was frozen out by coach jose mourinho. chelsea s statement added:  this applies to both performance-enhancing drugs or so-called  recreational  drugs. they have no place at our club or in sport.  in coming to a decision on this case  chelsea believed the club s social responsibility to its fans  players  employees and other stakeholders in football regarding drugs was more important than the major financial considerations to the company.  any player who takes drugs breaches his contract with the club as well as football association rules.  the club totally supports the fa in strong action on all drugs cases.  fifa s disciplinary code stipulates that a first doping offence should be followed by a six-month ban. and the sport s world governing body has re-iterated their stance over mutu s failed drugs test  maintaining it is a matter for the domestic sporting authorities.  fifa is not in a position to make any comment on the matter until the english fa have informed us of their disciplinary decision and the relevant information associated with it   said a fifa spokesman. chelsea s move won backing from drug-testing expert michelle verroken. verroken  a former director of drug-free sport for uk sport  insists the blues were right to sack mutu and have enhanced their reputation by doing so.  chelsea are saying quite clearly to the rest of their players and their fans that this is a situation they are not prepared to tolerate.  it was a very difficult decision for them and an expensive decision for them but the terms of his contract were breached and it was the only decision they could make.  it is a very clear stance by chelsea and it has given a strong boost to the reputation of the club.  it emerged that mutu had failed a drugs test on october 18 and  although it was initially reported that the banned substance in question was cocaine. the romanian international later suggested it was a substance designed to enhance sexual performance. the football association has yet to act on mutu s failed drugs test and refuses to discuss his case.
entertainment,slater to star in broadway play actor christian slater is stepping into the role of tom in the broadway revival of the glass menagerie.  slater  35  is replacing actor dallas roberts in the tennessee williams drama  which opens next month. no reason was given for roberts  departure. the role will be played by understudy joey collins until slater joins the show. slater won rave reviews for his recent performance in one flew over the cuckoo s nest in london s west end.  he has also starred in a number of films  including heathers  robin hood: prince of thieves and more recently churchill: the hollywood years. preview performances of the glass menagerie will begin at new york s ethel barrymore theatre on thursday. philip rinaldi  a spokesman for the show  said the play s 15 march opening date remains unchanged. the revival  directed by david leveaux  will also star jessica lange as the domineering mother  amanda wingfield.
politics,jack cunningham to stand down veteran labour mp and former cabinet minister jack cunningham has said he will stand down at the next election.  one of the few blair-era ministers to serve under jim callaghan  he was given the agriculture portfolio when labour regained power in 1997. mr cunningham went on to become tony blair s  cabinet enforcer . he has represented the constituency now known as copeland since 1970. mr blair said he was a  huge figure  in labour and a  valued  personal friend .  during labour s long period in opposition  mr cunningham held a number of shadow roles including foreign affairs  the environment and as trade spokesman. as agriculture minister he caused controversy when he decided to ban beef on the bone in the wake of fears over bse. he quit the government in 1999 and in recent years has served as the chairman of the all-party committee on lords reform and has been a loyal supporter of the government from the backbenches.
business,safety alert as gm recalls cars the world s biggest carmaker general motors (gm) is recalling nearly 200 000 vehicles in the us on safety grounds  according to federal regulators.  the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa) said the largest recall involves 155 465 pickups  vans and sports utility vehicles (suvs). this is because of possible malfunctions with the braking systems. the affected vehicles in the product recall are from the 2004 and 2005 model years  gm said. those vehicles with potential faults are the chevrolet avalanche  express  kodiak  silverade and suburban; the gmc savana  sierra and yukon.  the nhtsa said a pressure accumulator in the braking system could crack during normal driving and fragments could injure people if the hood was open. this could allow hydraulic fluid to leak  which could make it harder to brake or steer and could cause a crash  it warned. gm is also recalling 19 924 cadillac xlr coupes  srx suvs and pontiac grand prix sedans from the 2004 model year. this is because the accelerator pedal may not work properly in extremely cold temperatures  requiring more braking. in addition  the car giant is calling back 17 815 buick raniers  chevrolet trailblazers  gmc envoys and isuzu ascenders from the 2005 model years because the windshield is not properly fitted and could fall out in a crash. however  gm stressed that it did not know of any injuries related to the problems. news of the recall follows an announcement last month that gm expects earnings this year be lower than in 2004. the world s biggest car maker is grappling with losses in its european business  weak us sales and now a product recall. in january  gm said higher healthcare costs in north america  and lower profits at its financial services subsidiary would hurt its performance in 2005.
tech,screensaver tackles spam websites net users are getting the chance to fight back against spam websites  internet portal lycos has made a screensaver that endlessly requests data from sites that sell the goods and services mentioned in spam e-mail. lycos hopes it will make the monthly bandwidth bills of spammers soar by keeping their servers running flat out. the net firm estimates that if enough people sign up and download the tool  spammers could end up paying to send out terabytes of data.   we ve never really solved the big problem of spam which is that its so damn cheap and easy to do   said malte pollmann  spokesman for lycos europe.  in the past we have built up the spam filtering systems for our users   he said   but now we are going to go one step further.    we ve found a way to make it much higher cost for spammers by putting a load on their servers.  by getting thousands of people to download and use the screensaver  lycos hopes to get spamming websites constantly running at almost full capacity. mr pollmann said there was no intention to stop the spam websites working by subjecting them with too much data to cope with. he said the screensaver had been carefully written to ensure that the amount of traffic it generated from each user did not overload the web.  every single user will contribute three to four megabytes per day   he said   about one mp3 file.  but  he said  if enough people sign up spamming websites could be force to pay for gigabytes of traffic every single day. lycos did not want to use e-mail to fight back  said mr pollmann.  that would be fighting one bad thing with another bad thing   he said.  the sites being targeted are those mentioned in spam e-mail messages and which sell the goods and services on offer.  typically these sites are different to those that used to send out spam e-mail and they typically only get a few thousand visitors per day. the list of sites that the screensaver will target is taken from real-time blacklists generated by organisations such as spamcop. to limit the chance of mistakes being made  lycos is using people to ensure that the sites are selling spam goods. as these sites rarely use advertising to offset hosting costs  the burden of high-bandwidth bills could make spam too expensive  said mr pollmann. sites will also slow down under the weight of data requests. early results show that response times of some sites have deteriorated by up to 85%. users do not have to be registered users of lycos to download and use the screensaver. while working  the screensaver shows the websites that are being bothered with requests for data. the screensaver is due to be launched across europe on 1 december and before now has only been trialled in sweden. despite the soft launch  mr pollmann said that the screensaver had been downloaded more than 20 000 times in the last four days.  there s a huge user demand to not only filter spam day-by-day but to do something more   he said  before now users have never had the chance to be a bit more offensive.
business,profits slide at india s dr reddy profits at indian drugmaker dr reddy s fell 93% as research costs rose and sales flagged.  the firm said its profits were 40m rupees ($915 000; £486 000) for the three months to december on sales which fell 8% to 4.7bn rupees. dr reddy s has built its reputation on producing generic versions of big-name pharmaceutical products. but competition has intensified and the firm and the company is short on new product launches. the most recent was the annoucement in december 2000 that it had won exclusive marketing rights for a generic version of the famous anti-depressant prozac from its maker  eli lilly. it also lost a key court case in march 2004  banning it from selling a version of pfizer s popular hypertension drug norvasc in the us. research and development of new drugs is continuing apace  with r&d spending rising 37% to 705m rupees - a key cause of the decrease in profits alongside the fall in sales. patents on a number of well-known products are due to run out in the near future  representing an opportunity for dr reddy  whose shares are listed in new york  and other indian generics manufacturers.  sales in dr reddy s generics business fell 8.6% to 966m rupees. another staple of the the firm s business  the sale of ingredients for drugs  also performed poorly. sales were down more than 25% from the previous year to 1.4bn rupees in the face of strong competition both at home  and in the us and europe. dr reddy s indian competitors are gathering strength although they too face heavy competitive pressures.
business,us crude prices surge above $53 us crude prices have soared to fresh four-month highs above $53 in the us as refinery problems propelled petrol prices to an all-time high.  us light sweet crude futures jumped to $53.09 a barrel in new york before closing at $53.03. the gains tracked a surge in us gasoline futures to a record high of $1.4850 a gallon. the jump followed a fire at western refining company s refinery in texas  which shut down petrol production. a spokesman for the group was unable to say when the production unit would be back up and running.  this market simply wants to go up   citigroup global markets analyst kyle cooper told reuters news agency. ed silliere  analyst at energy merchant  added:  gasoline is up because of the refinery issues in texas  which means there will be a scramble for product in the (us) gulf coast.   elsewhere  a refinery in houston was closed due to mechanical problems  while on tuesday production at bp s texas city refinery was taken down for a short time. in the approach to spring  the market becomes much more sensitive to problems with petrol production as dealers anticipate rising demand for fuel ahead of the holiday season. the rise in prices came despite a us government report that showed domestic supplies of fuel oil and fuel were rising. meanwhile  oil production cartel opec s recent announcement that it was now unlikely to cut production levels has also failed to calm fears on the market. oil prices are roughly 45% higher than a year ago and have risen sharply in recent weeks due to a combination of colder weather  the declining value of the dollar and fears that opec could rein in production to head off a seasonal drop in demand. instability in iraq and underlying fears about terrorism have also played a part in the rally.
tech,ibm frees 500 software patents computer giant ibm says 500 of its software patents will be released into the open development community.  the move means developers will be able to use the technologies without paying for a licence from the company. ibm described the step as a  new era  in how it dealt with intellectual property and promised further patents would be made freely available. the patents include software for a range of practices  including text recognition and database management. traditional technology business policy is to amass patents and despite ibm s announcement the company continues to follow this route.  ibm was granted 3 248 patents in 2004  more than any other firm in the us  the new york times reports. for each of the past 12 years ibm has been granted more us patents than any other company. ibm has received 25 772 us patents in that period and reportedly has more than 40 000 current patents. in a statement  dr john e. kelly  ibm senior vice president  technology and intellectual property  said:  true innovation leadership is about more than just the numbers of patents granted. it s about innovating to benefit customers  partners and society.   our pledge today is the beginning of a new era in how ibm will manage intellectual property.  in the past  ibm has supported the non-commercial operating system linux although critics have said this was done only as an attempt to undermine microsoft.  the company said it wanted to encourage other firms to release patents into what it called a  patent commons . adam jollans  ibm s world-wide linux strategy manager  said the move was a genuine attempt to encourage innovation.  we believe that releasing these patents will result in innovation moving more quickly.  this is about encouraging collaboration and following a model much like academia.  mr jollans likened the plan for a patent commons to the way the internet was developed and said everyone could take advantage of the result of collaboration.  the internet s impact has been on everyone. the benefits are there for everyone to take advantage of.  stuart cohen  chief executive of us firm open source development labs  said the move could mean a change in the way companies deal with patents.   i think other companies will follow suit   he said. but not everyone was as supportive. florian mueller  campaign manager of a group lobbying toprevent software patents becoming legal in the european union dismissed ibm s move as insubstantial.  it s just diversionary tactics   wrote mr mueller  who leadsnosoftwarepatents.com  in a message on the group s website.  let s put this into perspective: we re talking aboutroughly one percent of ibm s worldwide patent portfolio. they filethat number of patents in about a month s time   he added. ibm will continue to hold the 500 patents but it has pledged to seek no royalties from the patents. the company said it would not place any restrictions on companies  groups or individuals who use them in open-source projects. open source software is developed by programmers who offer the source code - the origins of the program - for free and allow others to adapt or improve the software. end users have the right to modify and redistribute the software  as well as the right to package and sell the software. other areas covered by the patents released by ibm include storage management  simultaneous multiprocessing  image processing  networking and e-commerce.
sport,benitez deflects blame from dudek liverpool manager rafael benitez has refused to point the finger of blame at goalkeeper jerzy dudek after portsmouth claimed a draw at anfield.  dudek fumbled a cross before lomana lualua headed home an injury-time equaliser  levelling after steven gerrard put liverpool ahead. benitez said:  it was difficult for jerzy. it was an unlucky moment.  he was expecting a cross from matthew taylor and it ended up like a shot  so i don t blame him for what happened.  benitez admitted it was a costly loss of two points by liverpool  who followed up their derby defeat against everton with a disappointing draw. he said:  we had many opportunities but didn t score and  in the end  a 1-0 lead was not enough.  if you don t have any chances you have to think of other things  but when you are creating so many chances as we are there is nothing you can say to the players. it was a pity.  we lost two points  but we have one more point in the table. now we have another difficult game against newcastle and we have to recover quickly from that.
politics,csa  could close   says minister ministers would not rule out scrapping the child support agency if it failed to improve  work and pensions secretary alan johnson has warned.  but he said replacing the controversial csa would be  the nuclear option . a report by the commons work and pensions committee called for the agency to be wound up unless it improved its service within weeks. chairman sir archy kirkwood said:  if the agency cannot be rescued  then it must be replaced.   the committee reached its conclusions after it found that nearly 250 000 cases have yet to be processed. it warned that it could be five years before the csa was  fit for purpose   describing it as  a failing organisation  and  in crisis  with parents facing payment delays and inaccurate maintenance calculations. the report urged the csa to draw up contingency plans  including the  abandonment option   to be presented to parliament by easter  in case the cs2 computer system could not be made to work.  and responding to calls for the agency to be scrapped  mr johnson told bbc radio 4 s today programme:  i certainly wouldn t rule out the nuclear option of moving to a completely new system.  but i think the select committee would agree with me we would only do that when we were absolutely convinced that this system just isn t going to work.   the mps launched their inquiry into the csa s performance after it became clear that  despite the introduction of a simpler system of calculating maintenance payments for new cases in 2003  a backlog of claims was building up. the mps found the £456m system from american it giant eds was  nowhere near being fully functional and the number of dissatisfied  disenchanted and angry customers continues to escalate . faced with the committee s criticism  the government has suspended its plan to cut the agency s staff by 25%. the csa has been surrounded in controversy since its introduction in 1993 to assess and enforce child support payments by absent parents.  it is currently chasing outstanding payments of more than £720m  while a further £947m has been designated as  unrecoverable .  michelle  a mother of twins  said she had not received a penny of the £57 a week she should be receiving from her ex-partner and had faced an  on-going battle  with the csa. her forms have twice been lost in the post  she said.  i don t receive correspondence  i don t receive phone calls  i have to chase them all the time   she said. theresa may  tory shadow work and pensions secretary  said:  we have got to find a way that s going to ensure those payments get through to the people who are due them.  the agency s former chief executive doug smith quit last autumn claiming he was  seriously disappointed  with its performance. the committee said the national audit office should investigate why the eds system had gone so badly wrong. it blamed the agency s senior management for a  multitude of problems  within the agency  including for an apparent lack of training of frontline staff.
sport,williams battles to aussie title serena williams staged a remarkable recovery to beat lindsay davenport and win her second australian open title.  the 2003 champion claimed her seventh grand slam title  and her first since wimbledon in 2003  2-6 6-3 6-0. williams had looked close to quitting with a rib injury when she left the court for treatment after five games. she quickly dropped the first set but from 3-3 in the second found another gear as davenport s game collapsed  allowing williams to take the title. williams later explained her injury problem  saying it was the result of lunging for a ball early in the first set.  lindsay had me on the run out wide on my backhand and my back went but eventually i was able to come back  thank goodness   she said. davenport paid tribute to williams  saying:  she s had a tough couple of years and she s come back like a champion.   the 23-year-old former world number one was in desperate trouble in the early stages as the injury hampered her service action. davenport took advantage to race through the opening set and held six break points in game five of the second.  i kept thinking to myself  i m not losing this game   said williams afterwards.   i don t care if my arm falls off  i m not losing this game . and i guess that s what happened.  i didn t want to lose that particular game because it would have given her a lot of momentum  and a lot of confidence.  despite letting the break points slip away davenport looked comfortable enough at 3-3  but from 40-0 up she just folded. williams won nine consecutive points for the set and powered through the decider as a lacklustre davenport looked to have run out of energy after a gruelling two weeks.  i felt like i was playing well and in control pretty much of the match   said davenport.  then i just had that horrible lapse  i think serving up 40-0  and made a few errors and opened up the door for her and she just kept going through it.  at the end i think i was a little bit fatigued but she took advantage of it and kept going - she s a great frontrunner when she gets going.
tech,seamen sail into biometric future the luxury cruise liner crystal harmony  currently in the gulf of mexico  is the unlikely setting for tests of biometric technology.  as holidaymakers enjoy balmy breezes  their ship s crew is testing prototype versions of the world s first internationally issued biometric id cards  the seafarer s equivalent of a passport. along with the owner s picture  name and personal details  the new seafarers  identity document incorporates a barcode representing unique features of its holder s fingerprints. the cards are due to be issued in february next year  in line with the revised un convention on seafarers  identity documents of june 2003. tests currently under way in the caribbean are designed to ensure that new cards and their machine readers  produced by different companies in different countries  are working to interoperable standards. results of the current tests  which involve seafarers from a wide range of occupations and nationalities  will be published by the international labour organisation (ilo) by the end of november. crystal cruises  which operates the crystal harmony  is exploring the use of biometrics but has not yet committed to the technology.  authenti-corp  the us technology consultancy  has been working with the ilo on its technical specifications for the cards.   if you re issued a seafarer s id in your country  you want to be sure that when the ship lands in a port in  say  my country you can validate yourself using whatever equipment we have installed   authenti-corp s ceo  cynthia musselman  told the bbc s go digital programme. she said french  jordanian and nigerian nationals would be the first seafarers to get the new id cards since their countries have already ratified the convention. it aims to combat international terrorism whilst guaranteeing the welfare the one million seafarers estimated to be at sea. the convention highlights the importance of access to shore facilities and shore leave as vital elements to a sailor s wellbeing and  therefore  it says  to safer shipping and cleaner oceans.  by increasing security on the seas as well as border control and protection  the cards will hopefully reduce the number of piracy problems around the world   said ms musselman.  it should be a safer environment for seafarers to work in  and will allow people protecting their borders to have confidence that the people getting off the ship are  in fact  seafarers.
entertainment,film production  falls  40% in uk the number of british films produced in the uk fell 40% in 2004  with movies starring johnny depp and jude law among those affected  screen daily has said.  twenty-seven british films were made in the uk last year following a drop in funding  compared with 45 in 2003  according to the trade weekly. it attributed the drop to tighter tax laws and reduced funding from sources such as the national lottery. uk and us co-productions in britain fell from 102 in 2003 to 81 last year.  last year the government closed tax loopholes that many film investors had taken advantage of to fund films in the uk. several projects were shelved as they faced the implications of this clampdown  coupled with the reduction in movie funding from traditional sources including the lottery and miramax films. shooting on period drama tulip fever  which was to star jude law and keira knightley  was postponed indefinitely while shooting of the libertine starring johnny depp was moved to the isle of man.   there isn t anything coming in to replace (the funds)   said the libertine s executive producer marc samuelson.  we are in a hiatus.  films with  medium  budgets of up to £9m  a similar level to box office hits vera drake  calendar girls and enduring love  are expected to be worst hit by the tax clampdown. the strength of the pound against the dollar is expected to have resulted in a fall in the number of us films shot in the uk during 2004  screen international added. big budget co-productions  such as the harry potter series  continued to be shot in the uk  however. the uk film council said the drop was partly due to 2003 being an especially good year for british film production  when bridget jones: the edge of reason  wimbledon and thunderbirds were all filmed in the uk.   the drop was expected as there was no way 2003 s record level of production could be bettered   the council s spokesperson said.  the reduction in indigenous film production in 2004 was due to a variety of factors  including the continuing long-term trend towards co-production of films in more than one country and changes to financing arrangements.  it was  too early  to predict whether the downward trend in uk production would continue throughout 2005  the uk film council said. in september the government introduced subsidies worth up to £4m per film for medium budget films  under new treasury measures. it is also due to announce a replacement for uk film tax relief scheme section 48 in july.
sport,wales get williams fitness boost wales are hopeful that openside flanker martyn williams could be fit for saturday s rbs 6 nations championship opener against england in cardiff.  williams was expected to miss the match with a disc problem in his neck  but has been making a speedy recovery.  he will have tests in the next 48 hours and we are pretty optimistic he is getting there   wales  team physiotherapist mark davies said.  it has been frustrating but he is on the mend  he has made good progress.  last week williams  along with fellow flanker colin charvis - who is unlikely to play for at least a month while he recovers from a foot injury - was all but ruled out of the millennium stadium clash. with williams initially thought to be struggling  the signs pointed towards wales coach mike ruddock handing a first cap to former wales under-21 skipper richie pugh.  cardiff blues flanker williams  29  offers considerable experience and if he is declared fit then ruddock might be tempted to include him in the back row. charvis will be reviewed by the wales medical staff next monday  but davies admitted that there was only an  outside chance  of him being fit to face france in wales  third championship game on 26 february. wales  other injury concern is pugh s fellow neath-swansea ospreys player sonny parker  as the centre has a trapped nerve in his neck.  sonny s injury is still an issue   davies said.  it is still painful and irritable. we will run the rule of thumb over him in the next couple of days.  ruddock will name his starting line-up for the england game at 1830 gmt on tuesday evening  as wales target their first victory in cardiff over the world champions since 1993.
business,france telecom gets orange boost strong growth in subscriptions to mobile phone network orange has helped boost profits at owner france telecom.  orange added more than five million new customers in 2004  leading to a 10% increase in its revenues. increased take-up of broadband telecoms services also boosted france telecom s profits  which showed a 5.5% rise to 18.3bn euros ($23.4bn; £12.5bn). france telecom is to spend 578m euros on buying out minority shareholders in data services provider equant.  france telecom  one of the world s largest telecoms and internet service providers  saw its full-year sales rise 2.2% to 47.2bn euros in 2004.  orange enjoyed strong growth outside france and the united kingdom - its core markets - swelling its subscriber base to 5.4 million. france telecom s broadband customers also increased  rising to 5.1 million across europe by the end of the year. the firm said it had met its main strategic objectives of growing its individual businesses and further reducing its large debt. an ill-fated expansion drive in the late 1990s saw france telecom s debt soar to 72bn euros by 2002. however  this has now been reduced to 43.9bn euros.  our results for 2004 allow us to improve our financial structure while focusing on the innovation that drives our strategy   said chief executive thierry breton.  looking ahead  the company forecast like-for-like sales growth of between 3% and 5% over the next three years. france telecom is consolidating its interest in equant  which provides telecoms and data services to businesses. subject to approval by shareholders of the two firms  it will buy the shares in equant it does not already own. france telecom said it would fund the deal by selling an 8% stake in telephone directory company pagesjaunes.
business,dollar hovers around record lows the us dollar hovered close to record lows against the euro on friday as concern grows about the size of the us budget deficit.  analysts predict that the dollar will remain weak in 2005 as investors worry about the state of the us economy. the bush administration s apparent unwillingness to intervene to support the dollar has caused further concern. however  trading has been volatile over the past week because of technical and automated trading and light demand. this has amplified reactions to news  analysts said  adding that they expect markets to become less jumpy in january.  the dollar was trading at $1.3652 versus the euro on friday morning after hitting a fresh record low of $1.3667 on thursday. one dollar bought 102.55 yen.  disappointing business figures from chicago triggered the us currency s weakness on thursday. the national association of purchasing management-chicago said its manufacturing index dropped to 61.2  a bigger fall than expected.  there are no dollar buyers now  especially after the chicago data yesterday   said abn amro s paul mackel. at the same time  german chancellor gerhard schroeder and italian prime minister silvio berlusconi voiced concerns about the strength of the euro. mr berlusconi said the euro s strength was  absolutely worrying  for italian exports. mr schroeder said in a newspaper article that stability in foreign exchange markets required a correction of global economic imbalances. investors will now look towards february s meeting of finance ministers from the g7 industrialised nations in london for clues as to whether central banks will combine forces to stem the dollar s decline.
tech,europe backs digital tv lifestyle how people receive their digital entertainment in the future could change  following the launch of an ambitious european project.  in nice last week  the european commission announced its networked & electronic media (nem) initiative. its broad scope stretches from the way media is created  through each of the stages of its distribution  to its playback. the commission wants people to be able to locate the content they desire and have it delivered seamlessly  when on the move  at home or at work  no matter who supplies the devices  network  content  or content protection scheme. more than 120 experts were in nice to share the vision of interconnected future and hear pledges of support from companies such as nokia  intel  philips  alcatel  france telecom  thomson and telefonica. it might initially appear to be surprising that companies in direct competition are keen to work together. but again and again  speakers stated they could not see incompatible  stand-alone solutions working. a long-term strategy for the evolution and convergence of technologies and services would be required.  the european commission is being pragmatic in its approach. they have identified that many groups have defined the forms of digital media in the areas that nem encompasses. the nem approach is to take a serious look at what is available and what is in the pipeline  pick out the best  bring them together and identify where the gaps are. where it finds holes  it will develop standards to fill them. what is significant is that such a large and powerful organisation has stated its desire for digital formats to be open to all and work on any gadget. this is bound to please  if not surprise  many individuals and user organisations who feel that the wishes of the holder of rights to content are normally considered over and above those of the consumer. many feel that the most difficult and challenging area for the commission will be to identify a solution for different digital rights management (drm) schemes. currently drm solutions are incompatible  locking certain types of purchased content  making them unplayable on all platforms. with the potential of having a percentage of every media transaction that takes place globally  the prize for being the supplier of the world s dominant drm scheme is huge. although entertainment is an obvious first step  it will encompass the remote provisions of healthcare  energy efficiency and control of the smart home. the 10-year plan brings together the work of many currently running research projects that the ec has been funding for a number of years.  simon perry is the editor of the digital lifestyles website  which covers the impact of technology on media
entertainment,hillbillies singer scoggins dies country and western musician jerry scoggins has died in los angeles at the age of 93  his family has said.  scoggins was best remembered for singing the theme tune to popular us tv show the beverly hillbillies. the texan-born singer approached the producers of the programme with theme tune the ballad of jed clampett for the pilot which was screened in 1962. the show  which told the story of a poor man striking oil and moving to beverly hills  ran until 1971.  scoggins  daugher jane kelly misel said that her father never tired of the song and would sing it at least once a day.  he d sing it at birthdays and anniversaries and variety shows. he never stopped performing it   she said. when a film version of the beverly hillbillies was made in 1993  scoggins came out of retirement to perform the theme tune. scoggins sang the lyrics while bluegrass stars lester flatt and earl scruggs played guitar and banjo.
tech,2d metal slug offers retro fun like some drill sergeant from the past  metal slug 3 is a wake-up call to today s gamers molly-coddled with slick visuals and fancy trimmings.  with its hand-animated sprites and 2d side-scrolling  this was even considered retro when released in arcades four years ago. but a more frantic shooter you will not find at the end of your joypad this year. and yes  that includes halo 2. simply choose your grunt and wade through five 2d side-scrolling levels of the most hectic video game blasting you will ever encounter. it is also the toughest game you are likely to play  as hordes of enemies and few lives pile the pressure on.  players must battle soldiers  snowmen  zombies  giant crabs and aliens  not to mention the huge  screen-filling bosses that guard each of the five levels.  the shoot-anything-that-moves gameplay is peppered with moments of old-school genius. fans of robotic gastropods should note the title refers  instead  to the vast array of vehicles on offer in a game stuffed with bizarre hardware. tanks  jets and submarines can be commandeered  as well as cannon-toting camels  elephants and ostriches - more weaponry on offer than in an acre of iraq. doling out justice is a joy thanks to ultra responsive controls  and while this is a tough nut to crack  it is addictive enough to have you gagging for that one last go. and at a mere £20  metal slug 3 is as cheap as sliced  fried spuds  as the man says. of course  most of you will ignore this  lacking as it does the visual fireworks of modern blasters. but at a time when blockbuster titles offer only a fresh lick of paint in favour of real innovation  metal slug 3 is a fresh gasp of air from an era when the xbox was not even a twinkle in bill gates  eye.
sport,safin relieved at aussie recovery marat safin admitted he thought he was suffering another australian open final nightmare when he lost the opening set to lleyton hewitt.  the russian  who lost the 2002 and 2004 finals  fought back brilliantly to win 1-6 6-3 6-4 6-4.  i was nervous and i couldn t play tennis   said safin.  he started really well. he wasn t as nervous as i was because i was thinking of the two finals that i played and wasn t successful.  he added:  you really have to deal with the pressure because normally it never happens but when you come to the final you are so tight because you want to win.  i tried to play some tennis but i couldn t. he has huge experience  he s won two grand slam titles  he s won 24 titles  he s a great player and he deals with pressure.   from 4-1 down in the third set  safin played some of his best tennis to reel off seven games and take control of the match.  in the third set  just all of a sudden  it all turn around completely in a way i couldn t expect   said safin.  because he made a couple of mistakes  i was a little bit lucky at some point  then the confidence came back and i was back in the game.  and the russian revealed that the victory  and his semi-final win over world number one roger federer  had given him a massive boost for the future.  you get huge confidence because roger is a great player   said safin.  once i beat him  and then lleyton  it s like you get so much confidence in yourself that you really can play great.  you can win big titles and you can beat huge players in the finals and semi-finals.
business,rich grab half colombia poor fund half of the money put aside by the colombian government to help the country s poor is benefiting people who do not need it  a study has found.  a total of 24.2 trillion pesos ($10.2bn; £5.5bn) is earmarked for subsidies for the poor  the government department for planning said. but it also found 12.1 trillion pesos was going to the richest part of the population  rather than to those in need. sound distribution of the cash could cut poverty levels to 36% from 53%  the government believes.  resources are more than enough to reduce poverty and there is no need for more tax reforms but a better distribution   deputy planning director jose leibovich said.  colombia has a population of about 44 million and half lives below poverty line. however  some large properties are paying less in tax as they are situated inside poor areas  which benefit from cheaper utilities such as electricity and water  government research found. government expenditure in areas such as pensions  public services  education  property and health should be revised  mr leibovich said. he added that the government is now examining the report  but warned there would be no easy solution to the problem. with a good distribution of such subsidies and economic growth of just 2%  by 2019 poverty could fall as low as 15.3%  he said.
business,disaster claims  less than $10bn  insurers have sought to calm fears that they face huge losses after an earthquake and giant waves killed at least 38 000 people in southern asia.  munich re and swiss re  the world s two biggest reinsurers  have said exposure will be less than for other disasters. rebuilding costs are likely to be cheaper than in developed countries  and many of those affected will not have insurance  analysts said. swiss re has said total claims are likely to be less than $10bn (£5.17bn). swiss re believes that the cost would be substantial but that it is unlikely to be in double-digit billions  the financial times reported. munich re  the world s largest reinsurance company  said that its exposure is less than 100m euros (£70m; $136m).  at least 10 countries have been affected  with sri lanka  indonesia  india and thailand among the worst hit. the region s resorts and western tourists are expected to be among the main claimants.  lloyds of london told the financial times it expected its exposure to be limited to  holiday resorts  personal accident  travel insurance and marine risks . a spokeswoman for hanover re  europe s fifth-largest reinsurance firm  estimated tsunami-related damage claims would be in the low double-digit millions of euros. the company has paid out about 300 million euros (£281m; $400m) to cover damage caused recently by four major hurricanes in the us.  but insurers have not had long to assess the economic impact of the damage and reports of more casualties and destruction are still coming through.   so many things are unclear  it is just too early to tell   said serge troeber  deputy head of swiss re s natural disasters department.  you need very complicated processes to estimate damages. unlike the hurricanes  you can t just run a model.  he anticipated that his own company s total claims would be less then those from the hurricanes  which the company put at $640m. allianz  a leading german insurer  said it did not know yet what its exposure would be. however  it said the tidal waves were unlikely to have a  significant  impact on its business. zurich financial said they could not yet assess the cost of the disaster.  the impact on us insurance companies is not expected to be heavy  analysts said.  most us insurers have relatively little exposure to asia and those that do  pass on a lot of the risk to reinsurance companies or special catastrophe funds. insured damage could be a fraction of the  billions of dollars worth of destruction in sri lanka  india  thailand  indonesia  the maldive islands and malaysia   said prudential equity group insurance analyst jay gelb.  us insurers are likely to have only minimal to no exposure. it s more likely the bermuda-based reinsurance [companies] might have some exposure   said paul newsome  an insurance analyst at ag edwards & co.  many of the affected countries  such as indonesia  sri lanka or the maldives  do not usually buy insurance for these kinds of disasters  said a us-based insurance expert. early estimates from the world bank put the amount of aid needed for the worst affected countries including sri lanka  india  indonesia and thailand  at about $5bn (£2.6bn)  similar to the cash offered to central america after hurricane mitch.  mitch killed about 10 000 people and caused damage of about $10bn in 1998. but the cost of the tsunamis on the individuals involved is incalculable.  we cannot fathom the cost of these poor societies and the nameless fishermen and fishing villages ... that have just been wiped out. hundreds of thousands of livelihoods have gone   said jan egeland  head of the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs. tourists cutting short their holidays in affected areas may suffer a financial impact too. the association of british insurers warned that travel insurance does not normally cover cutting short a holiday. it said loss of possessions will usually be covered  but the association stressed the importance of checking the wording of travel policies.
business,us seeks new $280bn smoker ruling the us justice department is to try to overturn a court ruling that threw out its claim for $280bn (£149bn) in damages from tobacco firms.  earlier this month  a three-judge appeal court panel rejected the claim - filed in 1999 by the administration of bill clinton - in a 2-1 decision. government lawyers said they would ask the full us court of appeals for the district of columbia to hear the case. the court room battle is seen as key in government attempts to fight smoking.  it s pretty clear that they ve suffered a severe setback   said anthony sebok  a professor at brooklyn law school  adding that the appeal was what the government  would be expected to ask for .  prosecutors had argued that tobacco firms lied about the dangers of smoking  ignored research that highlighted problems  looked to increase addiction by manipulating nicotine levels and targeted the young with their adverts. among the firms accused were altria group  rj reynolds tobacco  lorillard tobacco  liggett group and brown and williamson. prosecutors went after the companies using legislation put in place to fight organised crime  and accused the firms of conspiring and running  racketeer influenced and corrupt organisations . the tobacco companies denied the charges  saying that they never illegally conspired to promote smoking and fool the public. they also said that they have met many of the government s demands laid out in a landmark $206bn settlement hammered out in 1998 with 46 states. a three-judge panel agreed with the companies  finding that the case could not be brought under federal anti-racketeering laws.  central to the government s case was a meeting in the plaza hotel  new york  on 15 december  1953. prosecutors contend that executives from the major tobacco firms met and agreed to present a unified strategy denying the harmful effects of smoking. despite denying for decades that smoking could be linked to illness  the companies have modified their stances in recent years. altria s philip morris now accepts that nicotine is harmful  and the company s main lawyer william ohlemeyer told the bbc last year that earlier statements may have been wrong but they were not dishonest. government lawyers have until 21 march to file their appeal.
tech,apple mac mini gets warm welcome the mac mini has been welcomed by apple fans  industry experts and pc users.  the release of the tiny  low-cost machine is seen as a good move for apple which currently has a small share of the desktop computer market. mac watchers and some analysts say the mac mini will go a long way to help apple appeal to the mass of consumers. they speculate that the mac mini will be bought by ipod owners and those wanting an easy-to-use and administer second home computer.   it s the bravest move they have made yet   said jonny evans  news editor at macworld magazine. mr evans said the combination of low cost  small size and huge numbers of ipod users could make it a big success.  he thought that the machine would appeal to those that like apple technology but who before now have balked at paying high prices for its hardware.  it s deeply affordable   he said.  plus you know that you do not get viruses or all of the associated problems.  already  he said  pc owning friends had declared that they would be buying one. interest in the new products launched at macworld expo was so strong that websites for apple s store and the show struggled to cope with demand. according to response statistics gathered by netcraft many visiting the apple store in the wake of mr jobs  speech suffered lengthy response times. the macworld expo site was completely overwhelmed and went offline.   i think fundamentally it s a good idea because it s cheap even for a pc   said nick ross  deputy labs editor at pc pro. apple s work on making things easy to use would also help the mac mini win fans  he said.  i think people expect it just to work now and really it should   hesaid. the mac mini could find a role in homes that need a second computer that is easy to install and administer  he said.  for browsing the web  e-mail and all kinds of basic duties it s going to be absolutely adequate   said mr ross. ian fogg  broadband and personal technology analyst at jupiter research  agreed that the mac mini could be very popular.  apple has been hoping that sales of the ipod will have a halo effect on the sales of the mac   he said.  before now  he said  apple has been seen as a premium brand. but  he said  the mac mini changed that perception.  it s a particularly good price when you see that it s apple that is doing it   he said. apple expects the mac mini to sell for £339 in the uk and $499 in the us. adding extras such as a larger hard drive  more memory and networking options will increase the basic price. it will go on sale from 22 january.  for consumers interested in style  design and small size - which is what the majority of ipod customers are interested in - it s a natural next step   said mr fogg. apple has traditionally done well in the market that the mac mini is aimed at  said mr fogg  who also expected many pc makers to release copycat devices in reaction.  his only misgivings were over how easy other consumers  other than ipod owners  would find using the machine. he said anyone wanting to use the mac mini with the peripherals from an old computer may find it odd to have something so small and sleek next to a hulking monitor.  they d be much more likely to pair a mac mini with a lcd or flat panel monitor which increases the upgrade cost   he said. those with flat screens and lcd monitors are likely to have bought them recently and not be in the market for a new machine.  there are also questions over whether the mac mini will work with very old peripherals  such as display  keyboard and mouse. the mac mini also fell short of being a media server that can be a video recorder as well as a store for all the digital music  movies and images people accumulate  said mr fogg.  the mac mini is not quite ready for that yet   he said.  it does not have the right connectors that fit a tv screen or enough storage.  said mr fogg:  it s very much a computer.  one dissenting opinion came from brian gammage  vice-president of research at analysts gartner. he said:  i don t think it changes the world.  although the mac mini was very cheap for an apple computer  it was still expensive compared to many pcs. also  he said  it appealed in categories that few consumers care about when buying a home computer.  the pc world is a pile-em-high  sell-em-cheap market   he said   and all of them are pretty interchangeable.   since the days when apple ruled the personal computing world its market share has been on a long  slow decline   he said.  every few years it does something to give its market share a kick then it starts to go back down again   said mr gammage. the release of the mac mini fit perfectly with this trend  he said.
sport,greene sets sights on world title maurice greene aims to wipe out the pain of losing his olympic 100m title in athens by winning a fourth world championship crown this summer.  he had to settle for bronze in greece behind fellow american justin gatlin and francis obikwelu of portugal.  it really hurts to look at that medal. it was my mistake. i lost because of the things i did   said greene  who races in birmingham on friday.  it s never going to happen again. my goal - i m going to win the worlds.  greene crossed the line just 0.02 seconds behind gatlin  who won in 9.87 seconds in one of the closest and fastest sprints of all time. but greene believes he lost the race and his title in the semi-finals.  in my semi-final race  i should have won the race but i was conserving energy.  that s when francis obikwelu came up and i took third because i didn t know he was there.  i believe that s what put me in lane seven in the final and  while i was in lane seven  i couldn t feel anything in the race.   i just felt like i was running all alone.  i believe if i was in the middle of the race i would have been able to react to people that came ahead of me.  greene was also denied olympic gold in the 4x100m men s relay when he could not catch britain s mark lewis-francis on the final leg. the kansas star is set to go head-to-head with lewis-francis again at friday s norwich union grand prix. the pair contest the 60m  the distance over which greene currently holds the world record of 6.39 seconds. he then has another indoor meeting in france before resuming training for the outdoor season and the task of recapturing his world title in helsinki in august. greene believes gatlin will again prove the biggest threat to his ambitions in finland. but he also admits he faces more than one rival for the world crown.  there s always someone else coming. i think when i was coming up i would say there was me and ato (boldon) in the young crowd   greene said.  now you ve got about five or six young guys coming up at the same time.
tech,blind student  hears in colour  a blind student has developed software that turns colours into musical notes so that he can read weather maps.  victor wong  a graduate student from hong kong studying at cornell university in new york state  had to read coloured maps of the upper atmosphere as part of his research. to study  space weather  mr wong needed to explore minute fluctuations in order to create mathematical models. a number of solutions were tried  including having a colleague describe the maps and attempting to print them in braille. mr wong eventually hit upon the idea of translating individual colours into music  and enlisted the help of a computer graphics specialist and another student to do the programming work.   the images have three dimensions and i had to find a way of reading them myself   mr wong told the bbc news website.  for the sake of my own study - and for the sake of blind scientists generally - i felt it would be good to develop software that could help us to read colour images.  he tried a prototype version of the software to explore a photograph of a parrot. in order to have an exact reference to the screen  a pen and tablet device is used. the software then assigns one of 88 piano notes to individually coloured pixels - ranging from blue at the lower end of this scale to red at the upper end. mr wong says the application is still very much in its infancy and is only useful for reading images that have been created digitally.  if i took a random picture and scanned it and then used my software to recognise it  it wouldn t work that well.   mr wong has been blind from the age of seven and he thinks that having a  colour memory  makes the software more useful than it would be to a scientist who had never had any vision.  as the notes increase in pitch i know the colour s getting redder and redder  and in my mind s eye a patch of red appears.  the colour to music software has not yet been made available commercially  and mr wong believes that several people would have to work together to make it viable. but he hopes that one day it can be developed to give blind people access to photographs and other images.
business,industrial output falls in japan japanese industrial output fell in october while unemployment rose  casting further doubt on the strength of the country s economic recovery.  production dropped 1.6% in october  reflecting a decline in exports  while unemployment levels edged up 0.1% to 4.7%  slightly higher than forecast. the economy has grown for six quarters but growth slowed dramatically in the last quarter amid weaker global demand. japan s government remains optimistic due to strong domestic demand.  analysts had been forecasting a 0.1% rise in month on month industrial output.  according to figures from the ministry of economy  trade and industry (meti)  the decline was led by a fall in demand for electronic parts for mobile phones and digital televisions. although inventories fell 0.7% month on month  they were 36% higher than a year ago.  it s a sign that the economy s adjustment phase is stronger than expected   said takashi yamanaka  an economist with ufj bank. japan downgraded its overall economic assessment earlier this month for the first time in a year.  growth slowed to 0.3% in the quarter ending september 30  down from 6.3% in the first quarter of 2004. experts believe the economy -which stagnated for most of the 1990s -may be entering a softer patch on the back of rising oil prices and the falling dollar. japanese government officials played down the latest data  arguing that domestic consumer demand was still resilient.  the outlook for november is positive so i don t think one can say that conditions have worsened just because of the fall in october   said a meti official. despite the rise in unemployment  jobless figures are still some way below historical highs of recent years. the comparatively weak economic date preyed on shares with the nikkei down 1% in afternoon trade.
sport,clyde 0-5 celtic celtic brushed aside clyde to secure their place in the scottish cup semi-final  but only after a nervy and testing first half.  the home side s craig bryson had a goal chopped off before stan varga headed celtic into the lead. alan thompson scored from the penalty spot at the start of the second half after shaun maloney had been fouled. stilian petrov slid in a third  varga tapped in his second and craig bellamy completed the rout with a fine drive. bryn halliwell was the busier keeper early on  saving from bellamy  chris sutton and juninho. clyde had the ball in the net after half-an-hour through a tremendous strike from bryson  but the referee had already blown for a foul by petrov. from the resulting free kick  darren sheridan curled the ball round the celtic wall only for the post to deny him. back at the other end  halliwell did well to come off his line and block bellamy s effort to lift the ball over him. the keeper misjudged a corner that stephane henchoz headed wide  but a similar scenario five minutes before the break led to the opening goal. the ball was delivered from the left and halliwell was left floundering as varga glanced the ball into the net.  maloney replaced the injured sutton at half time and he marked his first competitive appearance after a year out injured by helping his side take a two-goal lead just after the break. the young striker fired a free kick straight into the clyde wall but as he collected the rebound  he was tripped by bryson and thompson converted the penalty. sheridan and bellamy were involved in something of a flare-up that led to both being booked after the intervention of the assistant referee. juninho brought out another good save from halliwell and then petrov saw a tremendous effort come off the top of the bar. but petrov and juninho combined brilliantly to allow the bulgarian to make it 3-0 on the hour mark - a quick one-two giving him the time and space to steer the ball past halliwell from 12 yards. varga got his second goal of the game as celtic drove home their advantage - thompson whipped in a corner from the right and the unmarked defender simply tapped the ball over the line from a couple of yards out. celtic were utterly dominant by this stage and bellamy opened his scoring account for the club after a fine move involving aiden mcgeady  jackie mcnamara and maloney culminated in the welshman hammering the ball into the net. halliwell kept the deficit at five by pushing a mcgeady shot wide as the game petered out.  halliwell  mensing  bollan  balmer  potter  sheridan (burns 61)  arbuckle (gilhaney 61)  gibson  bryson (jones 78)  malone  harty.  morrison  wilson.  mensing  sheridan.  douglas  henchoz  mcnamara  balde  varga  juninho paulista  thompson  lennon (lambert 70)  sutton (maloney 45)  petrov (mcgeady 70)  bellamy.  marshall  laursen.  thompson  bellamy.  : varga 40  thompson 48 pen  petrov 60  varga 68  bellamy 72.  8 200  c thomson
entertainment,bennett play takes theatre prizes the history boys by alan bennett has been named best new play in the critics  circle theatre awards.  set in a grammar school  the play also earned a best actor prize for star richard griffiths as teacher hector. the producers was named best musical  victoria hamilton was best actress for suddenly last summer and festen s rufus norris was named best director. the history boys also won the best new comedy title at the theatregoers  choice awards.  partly based upon alan bennett s experience as a teacher  the history boys has been at london s national theatre since last may. the critics  circle named rebecca lenkiewicz its most promising playwright for the night season  and eddie redmayne most promising newcomer for the goat or  who is sylvia   paul rhys was its best shakespearean performer for measure for measure at the national theatre and christopher oram won the design award for suddenly last summer. both the critics  circle and whatsonstage.com theatregoers  choice award winners were announced on tuesday. chosen by more than 11 000 theatre fans  the theatregoers  choice awards named us actor christian slater best actor for one flew over the cuckoo s nest. diana rigg was best actress for suddenly last summer  dame judi dench was best supporting actress for the rsc s all s well that ends well and the history boys  samuel barnett was best supporting actor.
sport,moya emotional at davis cup win carlos moya described spain s davis cup victory as the highlight of his career after he beat andy roddick to end the usa s challenge in seville.  moya made up for missing spain s 2000 victory through injury by beating roddick 6-2 7-6 (7-1) 7-6 (7-5) to give the hosts an unassailable 3-1 lead.  i have woken up so many nights dreaming of this day   said moya.  all my energy has been focused on today.  what i have lived today i do not think i will live again.  spain s only other davis cup title came two years ago in valencia  when they beat australia. and moya  nicknamed charly  admitted:  the davis cup is my dream and i was a bit nervous at the outset.  some people have said that i am obsessed but i think that it is better this way. it helps me reach my goals if i am obsessed.  it s really incredible - to get the winning point is really something.  spanish captain jordi arrese said:  charly played a great game. it was his opportunity and he hasn t let us down.  he had lost three times to roddick  and this was his day to beat him.  he had been waiting years to be in this position.  spain s victory was also remarkable for the performance of rafael nadal  who beat roddick in the opening singles.  aged 18 years and 185 days  the mallorcan became the youngest player to win the davis cup.  what a great way to finish the year   said nadal afterwards. us coach patrick mcenroe wants roddick and the rest of his team to play more tennis on clay and hone their skills on the surface.  i think it will help these guys even on slow hard courts to learn how to mix things up a little bit and to play a little bit smarter and tactically better.   obviously it s unrealistic to say that we re going to just start playing constantly on clay  with the schedule.  but certainly i think we can put the work in at the appropriate time and play a couple more events and play against these guys who are the best on this stuff   said mcenroe. roddick was left frustrated after losing both his singles on the slow clay of seville s olympic stadium.  it s just tough because i felt like i was in it the whole time against one of the top three clay-courters in the world   said the american.  i had my chances and just didn t convert them. the bottom line is they were just better than us this weekend.  they came out  took care of business and they beat us. it s as simple as that.
tech,the future in your pocket if you are a geek or gadget fan  the next 12 months look like they are going to be a lot of fun.  the relentless pace of development in the hi-tech world and rampant competition in many of its sectors  particularly among mobile phone firms  all suggests that 2005 is going to be a very good year. to begin with  2005 will be the year that third-generation (3g) mobile phones become inescapable. the 3 network launched in 2003  vodafone launched its consumer service in november  orange followed in early december and t-mobile and o2 are due to launch in 2005. the main result of these launches will likely be a slew of good deals for consumers as operators try to poach new customers from rivals and convince existing users to trade up.  already the extra capacity in 3g networks lets 3 offer good deals on voice calls at rates that will probably have to be matched by the other operators. but the shift in technology and low cost of voice calls means that operators lose a significant chunk of their revenue.  show me an operator that believes their voice business can sustain them  and i ll write their obituary  said niel ransom  chief technology officer at alcatel.  instead operators are likely to push all other things that 3g phones can do such as video messaging and other multimedia capabilities. already camera phones look set to challenge digital cameras and are likely to win more fans as multi-megapixel devices go on sale. but 3g will not have everything its own way. it will face competition from emerging technologies such as wimax. this wireless technology can boost data transmission speeds up to 75 megabits per second and works over distances of up to 30 miles. kent is likely to be the site of the uk s first wimax network which is due to go live in 2005 and it could be the way that rural areas get high-speed net access. analyst firm telecom view predicts that wimax will steal a lot of market share from 3g and will be a clear winner. bob larribeau  principal analyst at telecom view  said the better return on investment offered by technologies such as wimax could dent the possible returns of 3g networks. and the growing ubiquity of wi-fi must not be forgotten either. the technology is popping up in more places than ever and its wider use is only held back by the price differences across countries and suppliers.  moves to unite mobile and fixed phones look set to get more emphasis in 2005 too.  for a start  bt looks set to roll out its bluephone project during the next 12 months. the service revolves around a hybrid device that uses the mobile networks when you are out and about but switches back to the fixed line when you are at home. fixed line phones will also start to get much more serious competition from a technology that has the formidable name of voice over ip (voip). voip routes calls via the net instead of the fixed line phone network. anyone with a broadband connection  which is now more than 50% of the uk s net using population  can use voip and could slash their monthly phone bills if they used it. telecommunications regulator ofcom has declared 056 to be the area code for voip calls and 2005 is likely to see a lot more consumer-focused voip call services starting up. home broadband services will also start to increase in speed as dwindling numbers of new users signing force the pace of competition. if 2004 has been the year of the portable music player  they 2005 looks like it will be the year of the portable media player. motorola has just announced a deal with apple to produce a phone that works with the itunes service and other hybrid gadgets that sport a big memory and lots of other functions will become commonplace. the pace of advancement in storage media will continue mean that the cost per megabyte of memory will plummet. some of those devices will sport huge hard drives letting you store more data than you ever wanted or knew you had. convergence could mean that single-function devices start to dwindle in number. instead every gadget will be able to do almost anything and communicate almost any way you want. the only downside is that consumers will face a series of tough choices as they are confronted by a bewildering array of gadgets each with an enormous numbers of features and vast data holding capacities. but that is the kind of problem most gadget fans can live with.
sport,greek sprinters suspended by iaaf greek sprinters kostas kenteris and katerina thanou have been suspended after failing to take drugs tests before the athens olympics.  athletics  ruling body the iaaf said explanations from the pair and their former coach as to why they missed the tests were  unacceptable . it added that kenteris and thanou had been  provisionally suspended pending the resolution of their cases . they face two-year bans if found guilty by the greek athletics federation. the suspension also covers the athletes  controversial coach  christos tzekos. kenteris  the 2000 olympic 200m champion  and thanou  the women s 100m silver medallist from the same games in sydney  also face a criminal hearing in greece over the missed tests. they failed to appear to give samples in chicago and tel aviv shortly before the athens games and again in athens on 12 august  the eve of the opening ceremony. greek prosecutors have also charged them with faking a midnight motorcycle crash which led to them spending four days in hospital. some medical staff have been charged with writing false medical reports. wednesday s statement said the greek federation (segas) would convene a disciplinary hearing for the trio to determine whether there had been doping violations.   there will be a final right of appeal from the decision of the greek federation to the court of arbitration for sport   the iaaf said. tzekos insisted he and the runners had nothing to hide.  the iaaf s decision means nothing   he said.  we ll be presenting all our arguments to segas - we re innocent.
tech,slim playstation triples sales sony playstation 2 s slimmer shape has proved popular with uk gamers  with 50 000 sold in its first week on sale.  sales have tripled since launch  outstripping microsoft s xbox  said market analysts chart-track. the numbers were also boosted by the release of the ps2-only game grand theft auto: san andreas. the title broke the uk sales record for video games in its first weekend of release. latest figures suggest it has sold more than 677 000 copies.   it is obviously very  very encouraging for sony because microsoft briefly outsold them last week   john houlihan  editor of computerandvideogames.com told bbc news.  and with halo 2 [for xbox] out next week  it really is a head-to-head contest between them and xbox.   although xbox sales over the last week also climbed  ps2 sales were more than double that. the figures mean sony is reaching the seven million barrier for uk sales of the console. edinburgh-based developer  rockstar  which is behind the gta titles  has seen san andreas pull in an estimated £24m in gross revenues over the weekend. in comparison  blockbuster films like harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban took £11.5m in its first three days at the uk box office. the lord of the rings: the return of the king took nearly £10m over its opening weekend  although games titles are four to five times more expensive than cinema tickets.  gangster-themed gta san andreas is the sequel to grand theft auto vice city which previously held the record for the fastest-selling video game ever. the xbox game halo 2  released on 11 november in the uk  is also widely tipped to be one of the best-selling games of the year. the original title won universal acclaim in 2001  and sold more than four million copies.  mr houlihan added that sony had done well with the ps2  but it definitely helped that the release of san andreas coincided with the slimline ps2 hitting the shelves. the run-up to christmas is a huge battlefield for games consoles and titles. microsoft s xbox had been winning the race up until last week in sales. the sales figures also suggest that it may be a largely adult audience driving demand  since gta san andreas has an 18 certificate. sony and microsoft have both reduced console prices recently and are preparing the way for the launches of their next generation consoles in 2005.  both have hit crucial price points at around £100 and that really does open up new consoles to new audience  plus the release of two really important games in terms of development are also driving those sales   said mr houlihan.
politics,lib dems demand new inquiry a judge should look into the david blunkett controversy as key questions remain unanswered  the lib dems say.  sir alan budd s inquiry linked the ex-home secretary to the speeding up of a visa claim by his ex-lover s nanny. but he could not say whether mr blunkett had treated the nanny as a special case or had used her as an example of immigration problems. lib dem spokesman mark oaten said the number of officials who had forgotten what happened was worrying. he told bbc news:  i m extremely concerned that 20 individuals appear to have forgotten what happened or more suspiciously are not prepared to say what happened.  that must be bad for government  it must be bad for public confidence in the system.   mr oaten said people would be mystified why sir alan s inquiry failed to uncover why processing of the visa application was speeded up. he said:  there is a strong case for a judge-led judicial review of this because  of course  next time it happens it may not be about a nanny and their visa. it may be about something even more important than that.  so we do need to understand what took place and who was involved.  the tories criticised the lib dem stance  saying mr oaten had initially said he accepted mr blunkett s word unless further evidence emerged. but lib dem officials say mr oaten was speaking when an inquiry was under way and was avoiding rushing to judgement.
business,german business confidence slides german business confidence fell in february knocking hopes of a speedy recovery in europe s largest economy.  munich-based research institute ifo said that its confidence index fell to 95.5 in february from 97.5 in january  its first decline in three months. the study found that the outlook in both the manufacturing and retail sectors had worsened. observers had been hoping that a more confident business sector would signal that economic activity was picking up.   we re surprised that the ifo index has taken such a knock   said dz bank economist bernd weidensteiner.  the main reason is probably that the domestic economy is still weak  particularly in the retail trade.  economy and labour minister wolfgang clement called the dip in february s ifo confidence figure  a very mild decline . he said that despite the retreat  the index remained at a relatively high level and that he expected  a modest economic upswing  to continue.  germany s economy grew 1.6% last year after shrinking in 2003. however  the economy contracted by 0.2% during the last three months of 2004  mainly due to the reluctance of consumers to spend. latest indications are that growth is still proving elusive and ifo president hans-werner sinn said any improvement in german domestic demand was sluggish. exports had kept things going during the first half of 2004  but demand for exports was then hit as the value of the euro hit record levels making german products less competitive overseas. on top of that  the unemployment rate has been stuck at close to 10% and manufacturing firms  including daimlerchrysler  siemens and volkswagen  have been negotiating with unions over cost cutting measures. analysts said that the ifo figures and germany s continuing problems may delay an interest rate rise by the european central bank. eurozone interest rates are at 2%  but comments from senior officials have recently focused on the threat of inflation  prompting fears that interest rates may rise.
tech,google s toolbar sparks concern search engine firm google has released a trial tool which is concerning some net users because it directs people to pre-selected commercial websites.  the autolink feature comes with google s latest toolbar and provides links in a webpage to amazon.com if it finds a book s isbn number on the site. it also links to google s map service  if there is an address  or to car firm carfax  if there is a licence plate. google said the feature  available only in the us   adds useful links . but some users are concerned that google s dominant position in the search engine market place could mean it would be giving a competitive edge to firms like amazon.  autolink works by creating a link to a website based on information contained in a webpage - even if there is no link specified and whether or not the publisher of the page has given permission.  if a user clicks the autolink feature in the google toolbar then a webpage with a book s unique isbn number would link directly to amazon s website. it could mean online libraries that list isbn book numbers find they are directing users to amazon.com whether they like it or not. websites which have paid for advertising on their pages may also be directing people to rival services. dan gillmor  founder of grassroots media  which supports citizen-based media  said the tool was a  bad idea  and an unfortunate move by a company that is looking to continue its hypergrowth . in a statement google said the feature was still only in beta  ie trial  stage and that the company welcomed feedback from users. it said:  the user can choose never to click on the autolink button  and web pages she views will never be modified.  in addition  the user can choose to disable the autolink feature entirely at any time.   the new tool has been compared to the smart tags feature from microsoft by some users. it was widely criticised by net users and later dropped by microsoft after concerns over trademark use were raised. smart tags allowed microsoft to link any word on a web page to another site chosen by the company. google said none of the companies which received autolinks had paid for the service. some users said autolink would only be fair if websites had to sign up to allow the feature to work on their pages or if they received revenue for any  click through  to a commercial site. cory doctorow  european outreach coordinator for digital civil liberties group electronic fronter foundation  said that google should not be penalised for its market dominance.  of course google should be allowed to direct people to whatever proxies it chooses.  but as an end user i would want to know -  can i choose to use this service    how much is google being paid     can i substitute my own companies for the ones chosen by google  .  mr doctorow said the only objection would be if users were forced into using autolink or  tricked into using the service .
entertainment,the comic book genius of stan lee stan lee  the man responsible for a string of comic superheroes that have become household names  has won a court battle for a slice of the profits from the hit spider-man movies.  many marvel at the man who gave his characters extraordinary powers and everyday headaches - a formula which revolutionised comics. born in 1922 to poor working-class jewish immigrants from romania  stan lieberman  got a job in timely publications  a company owned by a relative. he was assigned to the comics division and - thanks to a fertile imagination - rose to editor by the age of 18. for more than 20 years  he was  the ultimate hack  - knocking out crime stories  horrors  westerns  anything to sate the appetite of his juvenile readership. words of more than two syllables were discouraged. characters were either all good or bad  with no shades of grey. so embarrassed was lieberman by much of what he was writing that he refused to put his real name on the byline. he assumed the  dumb name   stan lee  now legally adopted.  by the time he was 40  lee had decided he was too old for the comic game. his british-born wife  joan  suggested he had nothing to lose and  for his swansong  should write the kind of characters he really wanted to create. after a rival comic had come up with a superteam consisting of batman  superman and wonder woman  timely needed to respond.  lee s answer  in 1961  was the fantastic four - a team of astronauts who gained super powers after being bombarded with cosmic rays. they were to change lee s life  and the comics industry  forever. lee gave each character individual  everyday teenage problems such as dandruff  ingrown toenails and acne. they would frequently fall out with their parents and each other. the fan letters poured in. without immediately knowing it  stan lee had ushered in the golden age of comics  and his imagination was rekindled. his marvel universe spawned the new title of marvel comics. soon after  nerdy peter parker was transformed - after a bite from an irradiated spider - into someone who could crawl up the sides of new york s skyscrapers. spider-man was born. he was to become an icon of modern popular culture. spidey  as he is affectionately known  had quite extraordinary powers - yet he had problems at work  at home and with his girlfriends. at last  the teenager was no longer just the sidekick  but the main hero. and the hero was no longer just brawn  he had brains too.   just because he s a hero and has super powers doesn t mean he doesn t have problems   stan lee told the bbc. the incredible hulk  the mighty thor  iron man and the rest all grappled with problems like drug abuse  bigotry and social inequality. radically  lee gave the artists responsible for the comic designs credits for their work. jack kirby  frank miller  john romitaand and others achieved cult status in their own right. other superheroes broke new ground in other ways. daredevil was blind  black panther was black and silver surfer pondered the state of humanity. lee s influence remains. some years ago the marvel hero  northstar  came out of the closet. in its heyday  marvel was selling 50 million copies a year. until he retired from editing in 1971  stan lee wrote all the copy for marvel s covers.  in 1999  his stan lee media venture  aimed at marrying comic-strips with the internet  went spectacularly wrong. lee went bankrupt and his business partner landed in prison for fraud. in 2001 though  he started a new company entitled pow! (purveyors of wonder) entertainment  which is currently developing films and television programmes. his latest project is a superhero based on a real person - jay j armes  who has metal claws after losing both hands aged 12 and fights crime with a tiger. but his 40-year-old creations are still as enduring as ever - with x-men  the hulk and daredevil have all been turned into hollywood action movies in the last five years. but spider-man has been the biggest box office hit  with the 2002 original and its 2004 sequel taking almost $1.6bn (£857m) in ticket sales around the world - before dvd and merchandise sales are counted. it seems stan lee is as indestructible as his heroes.
sport,lomu relishing return to action former all black star jonah lomu says he cannot wait to run out on the pitch for former england rugby union captain martin johnson s testimonial on 4 june.  the 29-year-old had a kidney transplant in july 2004 but will play his first full match for three years  leading a southern hemisphere side at twickenham.  i actually started training three weeks after my operation but i was very limited until a few months ago.  now it s basically bring it on!  said the giant winger.  the match on 4 june will be my first 15-man game but i have a training schedule which is quite testing and combines with sevens and a whole lot of things   said lomu.  i have got so much energy since my operation that i train three times a day  six days a week.   mohammed ali has always been my ideal. coming back to rugby  people said  you are dreaming  but it always starts off with a dream.  it s up to you whether you want to make it a reality.  opinion has been divided on whether lomu should attempt to return to the game after such a major operation. but when lomu was asked whether he was taking a risk he replied:  as much as someone going down the road being hit by a bus.  there are a lot of people in the world with one kidney who just don t know it.  i have talked this over  had a chat with the donor and this is to set my soul at peace and finish something i started in 1994 [when he made his all blacks debut].  at his lowest ebb lomu was so ill he could barely walk  but he says he is now getting stronger every day and his long-term target is to play for new zealand again.  the only person who saw me at my worst was my wife   he added.  i used to take two steps and fall over but now i can run and it is all coming back  and a lot more quickly than i ever thought it would.  to play for the all blacks would be the highest honour i could get. that is the long-term goal and you have to start somewhere.
business,gm  ford cut output as sales fall us car firms general motors (gm) and ford have been forced to cut production in the face of falling car sales.  us sales at gm sank 12.7% in february compared to a year ago while ford sales dropped 3% as foreign rivals took a bigger share of the market. meanwhile  asian carmakers fared well - toyota sales jumped 11% while rival nissan notched up a 10% increase. overall. sales across the industry also fell to 1.25 million vehicles from 1.27 million a year earlier.  gm and ford blamed high fuel prices for low sales of big trucks and gas-guzzling sports utility vehicles (suvs) - the vehicles that provide the biggest profits.  gm added that us truck sales fell 9% in february while car business tumbled 17%  however it did acknowledge that some new products - such as the pontiac g6 and chevrolet cobalt - had put in solid performances.  the calendar year is starting off slower than expected  both for gm and the industry   said mark laneve  gm s vice president for north american sales  service and marketing. the slump in sales prompted the group to cut production in north america by 3% - it has already reduced output by around 9% in the face of growing stockpiles. meanwhile  ford which posted its ninth consecutive drop in monthly us sales  said it was cutting first-quarter north american production by another 10 000 vehicles  or 1.2%. chrysler  the us unit of germany s daimlerchrysler  was the only detroit based automaker to boast an increase in market share during the month - with sales rising 8%.  but america s loss was its foreign rivals  gain as they continued to nibble away at the us market. while japan s top car maker toyota and nissan saw sales accelerate  even the smaller suzuki motor corp snapped up a more business with sales improving 17.6% on a year ago. in 2003  the firm launched an ambitious plan to triple us sales by 2007 as it seeks to become a bigger player in the asian assault on the us market. korea s hyundai was another big gainer  turning in a 19% surge in february sales. toyota put its rise in sales down to strong results for its redesigned avalon sedan and a 120% surge in sales of its gas-electric prius hybrid mid-size sedan as petrol-price conscious consumers looked to vehicles that were cheaper to run.  as gas prices continue their upward march  fuel efficiency catches the public eye   jim press  vice president and chief operating officer of toyota s us sales arm  said in a statement.
politics,uk firms  embracing e-commerce  uk firms are embracing internet trading opportunities as never before  e-commerce minister mike o brien says.  a government-commissioned study ranked the uk third in its world index of use of information and communication technology (ict). the report suggests 69% of uk firms are now using broadband and that 30% of micro businesses are trading online. mr o brien said uk businesses were sprinting forward in ict use  but that there were more challenges ahead. the report  carried out independently by consultants booz allen hamilton and hi europe  placed the uk third behind sweden and ireland for business use of ict.  it showed british business brought greater maturity to their ict use  by using broadband in increased numbers  bringing ict into their business plans and using new technologies such as voice activated programmes and desktop video conferences. mr o brien said:  the increase in the proportion of business connected by broadband shows that uk companies are embracing the opportunities that ict can bring.  it is particularly encouraging to see that small businesses are beginning to narrow the digital divide that appeared to have opened up in recent years.  the government would play its part in  cultivating an environment where information and communication technologies can flourish   mr o brien said. the  clear message  the report sends is that effective use of ict can bring real improvements in business performance for all business.   however  we are not at the finishing line yet and many challenges remain if the uk is to reach its aim of becoming a world-leading e-economy   he added. the international benchmarking study was based on 8 000 telephone interviews with businesses  of which more than 2 700 were uk businesses. it is the eighth in a series of examining the adoption and deployment of ict in the world s most industrialised nations.
business,orange colour clash set for court a row over the colour orange could hit the courts after mobile phone giant orange launched action against a new mobile venture from easyjet s founder.  orange said it was starting proceedings against the easymobile service for trademark infringement. easymobile uses easygroup s orange branding. founder stelios haji-ioannou has pledged to contest the action. the move comes after the two sides failed to come to an agreement after six months of talks. orange claims the new low-cost mobile service has infringed its rights regarding the use of the colour orange and could confuse customers - known as  passing off .   our brand  and the rights associated with it are extremely important to us   orange said in a statement.  in the absence of any firm commitment from easy  we have been left with no choice but to start an action for trademark infringement and passing off.  however  mr haji-ioannou  who plans to launch easymobile next month  vowed to fight back  saying:  we have nothing to be afraid of in this court case.  it is our right to use our own corporate colour for which we have become famous during the last 10 years.  the easyjet founder also said he planned to add a disclaimer to the easygroup website to ensure customers are aware the easymobile brand has no connection to orange. the new service is the latest venture from easygroup  which includes a chain of internet cafes  budget car rentals and an intercity bus service. easymobile will allow customers to go online to order sim cards and airtime - which will be rented from t-mobile - for their existing handsets.
entertainment,goodrem wins top female mtv prize pop singer delta goodrem has scooped one of the top individual prizes at the first australian mtv music awards.  the 21-year-old singer won the award for best female artist  with australian idol runner-up shannon noll taking the title of best male at the ceremony. goodrem  known in both britain and australia for her role as nina tucker in tv soap neighbours  also performed a duet with boyfriend brian mcfadden. other winners included green day  voted best group  and the black eyed peas. goodrem  green day and the black eyed peas took home two awards each. as well as best female  goodrem also took home the pepsi viewers choice award  whilst green day bagged the prize for best rock video for american idiot. the black eyed peas won awards for best r  n  b video and sexiest video  both for hey mama. local singer and songwriter missy higgins took the title of breakthrough artist of the year  with australian idol winner guy sebastian taking the honours for best pop video. the vh1 first music award went to cher honouring her achievements within the music industry. the ceremony was held at the luna park fairground in sydney harbour and was hosted by the osbourne family. artists including carmen electra  missy higgins  kelly osbourne  green day  ja rule and natalie imbruglia gave live performances at the event.
politics,howard s unfinished business  he s not finished yet   whispered the conservative party person as your reporter attempted to slip quietly from the hall. and indeed he wasn t. michael howard had already broken away from the printed text of his speech  at his party s spring conference in brighton  to deliver a smart rebuff to peter hain s description of him as an  attack mongrel   claiming such personal abuse meant labour was  rattled  by the tory challenge. and here he was again  moving to the front of the stage as the party faithful rose to their feet in applause  to make a personal  ad-libbed appeal to them to go out and fight for victory.  one day you will be able to tell your children and grandchildren as i will tell mine   i was there. i did my bit. i played my part. i helped to win that famous election - the election that transformed our country for the better .  the speech  which was peppered with references to mr howard s humble beginnings as the  child of immigrants   had been introduced by his son nick  a trainee vicar  who praised his father s honesty.  i always know where i am with him because all my life he has meant what he has said to me   he said. mr howard was also joined on stage by his wife sandra  daughter larissa and stepson sholto.  the audience s reaction to all of this was a little muted by party conference standards.  but mr howard s overall message - that the tories have labour on the run and that they can win the next election - did not sound quite as hollow as it might have done six months ago. mr howard claimed  with some justification  that the tories  campaign has got off to a  great start . they have had labour on the back foot over immigration  with tony blair hastily adding a sixth promise on the issue to his latest pledge card  and have even managed to score points in traditional labour territory such as health and education. the stunts involving margaret dixon with her postponed operation and maria hutchings with concerns about her son s special needs education may not have been to everyone s taste  but they succeeded in bringing the issues alive and forcing labour to react. senior tories believe they are  at long last  starting to tap into the public mood  cutting through the background noise to connect with the ordinary voter. their latest poster campaign flags up a range of policies from better school discipline  cleaner hospitals ( i mean  how hard is it to keep a hospital clean  ) and immigration ( it s not racist to impose limits on immigration ) - under the headline  are you thinking what we are thinking   this  they say  contrasts with labour s negative campaigning  such as its now infamous  flying pigs  poster.  oliver letwin  one of the men lampooned in the labour poster  affects bewilderment at what he believes is labour s loss of its once sure footing on the campaign trail. the peter hain  mongrel  attack  he says  is just the latest example of the party getting the tone wrong - a by-product  he claims  of the tories setting the agenda.   i have to say i don t understand what they are doing. the labour machine appears to be in some kind of state of shock  it doesn t seem to know what to do.  a few weeks of positive headlines have also done wonders for tory activists  morale - likely to be a crucial factor at an election which  most analysts seem to agree  will hinge on which party can get their core support out.  it has been a fantastic few weeks   said 20-year-old politics student nick vaughan.  our policies have been getting in the media and there is a sense that we can win. i wouldn t be here if i didn t think we could.  some delegates even spoke of the next election being like 1970  when ted heath  behind in the polls and written off by the pundits  snatched victory from harold wilson s labour party.  they all insisted it was not going to be a re-run of 2001.  we thought in 2001 we were going to dent that massive majority but it just didn t happen   said john murray  of aldridge browhills conservatives.  it was very disappointing. this time it really is different.  whoever is running our strategy from the top has got it bang on. blair is on the back foot.  much of the credit for the tories  recent change of fortune must go to lynton crosby  the australian strategist who succeeded in turning political veteran and apparent no-hoper john howard  of australia s liberal party  into a serial election winner. the tories still have a mountain climb if michael howard is to walk through the doors of number 10. even allowing for the natural bias against the tories in some opinion polls  they are still behind  when to have a chance of overturning labour s whopping majority  they should really be ahead. but as they gear up for the start of the campaign proper  the party at least has reason to hope that  like his australian namesake  mr howard really isn t finished yet.
politics,custody death rate  shocks  mps deaths in custody have reached  shocking  levels  a committee of mps and peers has warned.  the joint committee on human rights found those committing suicide were mainly the most vulnerable  with mental health  drugs or alcohol problems. members urged the government to set up a task force to tackle deaths in prisons  police cells  detention centres and special hospitals. there was one prison suicide every four days between 1999 and 2003  mps said. the report  which followed a year-long inquiry by the committee  found the high death rate  amounts to a serious failure to protect the right to life of a highly vulnerable group .  many of those who ended up taking their own lives had  presented themselves  to the authorities with these problems before they even offended  the report said. it questioned whether prison was the most appropriate place for them to be kept and whether earlier intervention would have meant custody could have been avoided.  increased resources and a reduction in the use of imprisonment was needed to address the issue in the longer term  the report said. committee chairman labour mp jean corston said:  each and every death in custody is a death too many  regardless of the circumstances.   yet throughout our inquiry we have seen time and time again that extremely vulnerable people are entering custody with a history of mental illness  drug and alcohol problems and potential for taking their own lives.   these highly vulnerable people are being held within a structure glaringly ill-suited to meet even their basic needs.  crime levels are falling but we are holding more people in custody than ever before. the misplaced over-reliance on the prison system for some of the most vulnerable people in the country is at the heart of the problems that we encountered.  until we change our whole approach to imprisoning vulnerable people we cannot begin to meet our positive obligations under article 2 of the european convention on human rights and meet our duty of care to them.   the committee also highlighted  deeply worrying  cases of children and young people taking their own lives. between 1990 and 2004  25 children have taken their own lives in prison and two have died in secure training centres. it picked out the case of joseph scholes  who hanged himself from the bars of his cell in stoke heath young offender institution in march 2002  and urged the home secretary to hold a public inquiry. it revealed that two weeks before his court appearance for a series of robberies  the 16-year-old was depressed  exhibiting suicidal tendencies and slashed his face with a knife about 30 times. even though the trial judge had been alerted to his experience of sexual abuse and mental illness  he was sentenced to a two-year detention and training order. nine days into his sentence  joseph hung himself from the bars of his cell window with a sheet.
entertainment,musical treatment for capra film the classic film it s a wonderful life is to be turned into a musical by the producer of the controversial hit show jerry springer - the opera.  frank capra s 1946 movie starring james stewart  is being turned into a £7m musical by producer jon thoday. he is working with steve brown  who wrote the award-winning musical spend spend spend. a spokeswoman said the plans were in the  very early stages   with no cast  opening date or theatre announced.  a series of workshops have been held in london  and on wednesday a cast of singers unveiled the musical to a select group of potential investors. mr thoday said the idea of turning the film into a musical had been an ambition of his for almost 20 years. it s a wonderful life was based on a short story  the greatest gift  by philip van doren stern. mr thoday managed to buy the rights to the story from van doren stern s family in 1999  following mr brown s success with spend spend spend. he later secured the film rights from paramount  enabling them to use the title it s a wonderful life.
politics,ukip candidate suspended eurosceptic party ukip have suspended a candidate for allegedly suggesting the criminally insane should be killed.  john houston  54  was due to stand in the east kilbride seat in lanarkshire at the next election. but he was suspended after his reported views  including the return of the british empire  were sent to two scottish newspapers. ukip spokesman mark croucher said those who selected mr houston knew nothing of his views. the episode comes at a difficult time for ukip  soon after the high-profile departure of mep robert kilroy-silk. mr houston is alleged to have said that the organs of the criminally insane should be  made available to law-abiding members of the community  and proposed the legalisation of drugs and the sex trade. the document reportedly said:  we re looking for the resurrection of the british empire.  the problems for the human race - environmental and others - can only be dealt with on a global scale  and that calls for a radical alliance of the english-speaking nations  which they are uniquely able to do.  mr croucher said the main issue would be that mr houston s reported views had been presented as ukip policy  which they were not. he said they might have been submissions to a committee working on the party s manifesto  but would not have been matched to mr houston when he was standing to become a candidate. he told bbc news:  he appears to have said these things. we have suspended him as a member and as a candidate.  by all accounts none of this was mentioned at his selection meeting.  it is simply a distraction from the task in hand  the eu constitution  not individual idiocies.  mr houston was quoted in the herald newspaper saying:  i feel ukip have over-reacted and overshot the runway.   peter nielson  who is ukip scotland chairman  said he had suspended mr houston on friday night.  he will remain suspended while the matter is being investigated and then we will decide if and what further action will be taken.  he said that any evidence would be looked into and mr houston may be interviewed by the party. he added:  i can t comment too much at the moment  i have one version from him but i haven t seen the papers yet.
business,economy  strong  in election year uk businesses are set to prosper during the next few months - but this could trigger more interest rate rises  according to a report.  optimism is at its highest since 1997 and business will reap the benefits of a continuing rise in public spending  say researchers at bdo stoy hayward. the bank of england is expected to keep rates on hold this week - but they could go up later in the year. rates are likely to rise after the anticipated general election in may. the bdo optimism index - a leading indicator of gdp growth two quarters ahead edged up in january to 102.5  from 102.2 in october. the rise is due  in part  to an increase in public spending and increased merger and acquisition activity.  the only thing blighting business optimism this year will be uncertainties associated with the general election  bdo said. its bdo s output index - which predicts gdp movements a quarter in advance - remained at 100.8 for january  implying gdp growth at 2.9% in the second quarter of 2005. however  the output index is being held back by recent interest rate rises  sterling s strength against the dollar and high oil prices  the group noted. its inflation index  which has risen continuously over the last 8 months  climbed to 110.0 in january from 108.0 in october last year.  the uk is looking strong going into the general election  but businesses need to prepare themselves for a jolt ahead as the bank of england reacts to growth and inflationary pressures   said peter hemington  partner at bdo stoy hayward.  growth will probably slow by the end of 2005 and it is likely that we will see higher interest rates or a sharp drop in demand for products and services.
entertainment,springer criticises opera musical talk show host jerry springer  whose programme inspired the controversial opera shown by the bbc  has said he would not have written it himself.  the bbc received 47 000 complaints before the musical was broadcast  and protesters demonstrated outside bbc buildings across the uk. springer helped launch the west end show and attended the opening night.  i wouldn t have written it. i don t believe in making fun of other religions   he said.  the tv host said he understood how people could have thought the musical had gone too far.  you know  on our tv show if people use inappropriate language we bleep it out  if there s nudity we cover it up  so that viewers at home don t get to see any of this   he said.  asked whether he thought the bbc should have screened the controversial musical he said:  i don t know if they should have had it on television but  good lord  if you don t like what s on television  that s why god gave us remote controls.  my show is about dysfunctional people and i defy anyone to watch the show and suggest to me the people on it aren t to some degree dysfunctional.    if i did a show about the war in iraq  it wouldn t make me a warmonger  i would just be doing my job to report on the war.  in the case of my show  it s my job to report on the dysfunctions that take place in society.  the british-born presenter is in london to speak at a fundraising dinner for the united jewish israel appeal. the dinner  on tuesday  is expected to be attended by more than 800 guests.
politics,top judge clashes with ministers the uk s top judge has revealed he has clashed with ministers about how the heads of public inquiries are chosen.  lord woolf said he was determined his current veto on whether a judge should chair an inquiry should continue as a guard for judicial independence. but he told mps the lord chancellor  lord falconer  was insisting he should have the final say in such cases. lord hutton s inquiry into the death of dr david kelly sparked debate about who should run inquiries.  the government says the lord chancellor would be unlikely to go against lord woolf s wishes. lord woolf  who is lord chief justice of england and wales  was giving evidence to the commons public administration select committee s inquiry into public inquiries. he said he had not been involved in the choice of lord hutton  who as a law lord did not come under his jurisdiction. but he argued he should have a veto on whether judges generally should chair a particular inquiry and if so  which judge it should be. in written evidence to the committee  lord woolf said:  i have  so far  failed to reach an agreement with the lord chancellor on this issue ... i intend to maintain my position and will press for this safeguard to be in any future legislation.   judges should think carefully before heading an inquiry into a highly political issue  such as the intelligence on iraq s weapons of mass destruction  he said. he argued:  the subject matter of the inquiry may be so political that it would be damaging to the judiciary for a judge to be involved.  in addition  the question of whether there should be an inquiry at all may be highly controversial and if a judge is appointed  the judiciary  as a result of the appointment  may be seen as siding inappropriately with the government.  he told the mps:  anything that tends to undermine the confidence of the public in the judiciary worries me.   lord woolf said the current rules were not written down but it was inconceivable in practice that the lord chancellor would overrule his concerns. but that situation could change with new legal reforms. the issue had been  overlooked  when a new agreement was drawn up about those responsibilities and the dispute had emerged in later discussions.  what i am asking for is a situation where if the lord chancellor cannot obtain my agreement [on appointing a judge]  it doesn t happen   he said.  lord woolf said he did not think there would be difficulties but he wanted to establish the principle. a department for constitutional affairs spokeswoman said lord woolf and lord falconer agreed about what happened in practice.  their disagreement is about whether the legislation should include a requirement for consultation or concurrence - a very narrow dispute  in lord woolf s words   she said.  as lord woolf also acknowledged  it is highly unlikely that the lord chancellor would appoint a judge against the wishes of the lord chief justice.  judges are free to decide for themselves whether to accept positions as inquiry chairs.  parliament will examine the issue next year when it debates a new bill about public inquiries.
politics,blair dismisses quit claim report tony blair has dismissed reports he told gordon brown he would quit before the next general election.   you don t do deals over jobs like this   the prime minister told bbc one s breakfast with frost programme. according to a new book  brown s britain  mr blair went back on a pledge to make way for mr brown after cabinet allies intervened in june 2004. mr blair said the claims were  reheated from six months ago  and that he was concentrating on running the country. mr blair said:  i ve dealt with this six months ago. i said then you don t do deals over jobs like this - you don t.   what both of us are actually concentrating on are the issues that concern the country.  the book  by sunday telegraph journalist robert peston and serialised in the newspaper  said the pair had  mutual animosity and contempt  for each other.  it claims tony blair felt by november 2003 he had lost voters  trust because of the iraq war and that he was no longer an asset to the labour party. and that at a dinner hosted by deputy prime minister john prescott he told mr brown of his intention to stand down. according to mr peston the prime minister said:  help me to get through the year and i will then stand down.  but he then changed his mind in june 2004  following intervention from allies in the cabinet and the suspicion that the chancellor was deliberately manoeuvring against him  according to the book.  mr peston told bbc news:  my understanding is that they are not nearly as close or as friendly as they once were.  what the book says is there is now a pretty profound mutual mistrust  mutual animosity.  i think in public you see this double-act pretending everything is alright  but in private i don t think the relationship is good because brown  understandably  feels deeply betrayed - particularly over this issue of the leadership.  but  in a wide-ranging bbc interview covering issues such as the asian tsunami disaster  the middle east peace process and northern ireland  mr blair said:  when you get to the top in politics you get this huge swell around you.  all sorts of people make all sorts of claims and counter-claims.  he admitted to a  sense of frustration  about the allegations which he said had been made  countless times .  there has been fresh speculation of a rift recently  following their separate responses to the asian tsunami. these rumours were fuelled by mr blair s decision to hold his monthly media conference at the same time as a long-planned speech by mr brown on uk plans to tackle global poverty with a new  marshall plan  for africa. there was speculation the pair were trying to outdo each other s response to the disaster. but the prime minister said he had discussed these claims with the chancellor and dismissed them as a  load of nonsense . former welfare minister frank field mp said the prime minister should sack mr brown  but did not believe mr blair was strong enough to do so.  tory leader michael howard accused the prime minister and mr brown of  squabbling like schoolboys . he told sky news  sunday with adam boulton:  this is the politics of the playground and britain really does deserve better.  the liberal democrat parliamentary chairman matthew taylor said the personal ambition of mr blair and mr brown was  getting in the way of good government .  either they need to grow up and put their squabbles to one side or they cannot expect the electorate to support a divided government at the next election.  during the interview mr blair also said the former home secretary david blunkett would play a  big role  at the general election.
entertainment,stars gear up for bafta ceremony film stars from across the globe are preparing to walk the red carpet at this year s bafta award ceremony.  the 2005 orange british academy film awards are being held at the odeon in london s leicester square. a host of hollywood stars  including cate blanchett  leonardo dicaprio  keanu reeves and richard gere  are expected to attend saturday s ceremony. hosted by stephen fry  the glittering ceremony will be broadcast on bbc one at 2010 gmt.  other actors expected to add to the glamour of the biggest night in uk film are gael garcia bernal  imelda staunton  diane kruger  christian slater  anjelica huston  helen mirren and former james bond star pierce brosnan. hollywood blockbuster the aviator  starring dicaprio  leads the field with 14 nominations  including best film.  it is up against eternal sunshine of the spotless mind  finding neverland  the motorcycle diaries and british film vera drake  which has 11 nominations. british hope imelda staunton is one of the favourites to land the best actress award for her gritty role as a backstreet abortionist in the small-budget film. other nominees in the best actress category include charlize theron for monster  ziyi zhang for house of flying daggers and uk star kate winslet  who has two nods for her roles in eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and finding neverland.  dicaprio faces competition from bernal  jamie foxx  jim carrey and johnny depp in the best actor category. and british actor clive owen is hoping to repeat his golden globe success with a best supporting actor award for his role in closer. his co-star natalie portman is up against blanchett  heather craney  julie cristie and meryl streep in the best supporting actress category. mike leigh is up for the best director award for vera drake  alongside martin scorsese for the aviator  michael mann for collateral  michel gondry for eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and marc forster for finding neverland.
politics,fox attacks blair s tory  lies  tony blair lied when he took the uk to war so has no qualms about lying in the election campaign  say the tories.  tory co-chairman liam fox was speaking after mr blair told labour members the tories offered a  hard right agenda . dr fox told bbc radio:  if you are willing to lie about the reasons for going to war  i guess you are going to lie about anything at all.  he would not discuss reports the party repaid £500 000 to lord ashcroft after he predicted an election defeat.  the prime minister ratcheted up labour s pre-election campaigning at the weekend with a helicopter tour of the country and his speech at the party s spring conference. he insisted he did not know the poll date  but it is widely expected to be 5 may.  in what was seen as a highly personal speech in gateshead on sunday  mr blair said:  i have the same passion and hunger as when i first walked through the door of 10 downing street.  he described his relationship with the public as starting euphoric  then struggling to live up to the expectations  and reaching the point of raised voices and  throwing crockery . he warned his supporters against complacency  saying:  it s a fight for the future of our country  it s a fight that for britain and the people of britain we have to win.   mr blair said that whether the public chose michael howard or mr kennedy  it would result in  a tory government not a labour government and a country that goes back and does not move forward . dr fox accused mr blair and other cabinet ministers of telling lies about their opponents  policies and then attacking the lies.  what we learned at the weekend is what labour tactics are going to be and it s going to be fear and smear   he told bbc news. the tory co-chairman attacked labour s six new pledges as  vacuous  and said mr blair was very worried voters would take revenge for his failure to deliver. dr fox refused to discuss weekend newspaper reports that the party had repaid £500 000 to former tory treasurer lord ashcroft after he said the party could not win the election.  we repay loans when they are due but do not comment to individual financial matters   he said  insisting he enjoyed a  warm and constructive  relationship to lord ashcroft.  meanwhile lib dem leader charles kennedy is expected to attack mr blair s words as he begins a nationwide tour on monday. mr kennedy is accelerating lib dem election preparations this week as he visits manchester  liverpool  leicester  somerset  basingstoke  shrewsbury  dorset and torbay. he said:  this is three-party politics. in the northern cities  the contest is between labour and the liberal democrats.  in southern and rural seats - especially in the south west - the principal contenders are the liberal democrats and the conservatives  who are out of the running in scotland and wales.  the lib dems accuse mr blair of making a  touchy-feely  speech to labour delegates which will not help him regain public trust.
sport,reds sink 10-man magpies titus bramble s own goal put liverpool on the comeback trail as injury-hit newcastle were well beaten at anfield.  patrick kluivert s close-range finish put newcastle ahead after 31 minutes  but they were pegged back as bramble headed in steven gerrard s corner. neil mellor gave liverpool the lead before half-time from milan baros  pass before the czech added a third after rounding shay given on the hour. newcastle then had lee bowyer sent off for two bookable offences. liverpool brought back luis garcia after a hamstring injury  while newcastle were forced to draft in kluivert after craig bellamy was a late withdrawal with a back injury sustained in the warm-up. and garcia should have crowned his return with a goal inside the opening minute when he took a pass from baros but shot wildly over the top from eight yards. olivier bernard was only inches away from giving newcastle the lead after 20 minutes  when he fired just wide from a free-kick 25 yards out. but souness s side did go ahead 11 minutes later in highly controversial circumstances.  kluivert looked suspiciously offside when kieron dyer set bowyer free  but the dutchman was then perfectly placed to score from six yards. the lead lasted three minutes  with liverpool back on terms as bramble headed gerrard s corner into his own net under pressure from sami hyypia. and liverpool were ahead after 37 minutes when baros slid a perfect pass into mellor s path for the youngster to slip a slide-rule finish into given s bottom corner. garcia s finishing was wayward  and he was wasteful again in first-half injury time  shooting tamely at given after good work by xabi alonso. any hopes of a newcastle recovery looked to be snuffed out on the hour when a brilliant turn and pass by harry kewell set baros free and he rounded given to score. jermaine jenas then missed a glorious chance to throw newcastle a lifeline  shooting over from just eight yards out from shola ameobi s cross. then bowyer  who had already been booked for a foul on alonso  was deservedly shown the red card by referee graham poll for a wild challenge on liverpool substitute florent sinama-pongolle.  dudek  finnan  hyypia  carragher  riise  luis garcia (nunez 73)  gerrard  alonso  kewell (traore 85)  baros  mellor (sinama pongolle 75).  subs not used: hamann  harrison.  bramble 35 og  mellor 38  baros 61.  given  andrew o brien  elliott  bramble  bernard  bowyer  dyer (ambrose 80)  jenas  milner (n zogbia 72)  kluivert (robert 58)  ameobi.  subs not used: harper.  bowyer (77).  bowyer  elliott  bernard.  kluivert 32.  43 856.  g poll (hertfordshire).
business,australia rates at four year high australia is raising its benchmark interest rate to its highest level in four years despite signs of a slowdown in the country s economy.  the reserve bank of australia lifted interest rates 0.25% to 5.5%  their first upwards move in more than a year. however  shortly after the bank made its decision  new figures showed a fall in economic growth in the last quarter. the bank said it had acted to curb inflation but the move was criticised by some analysts.  the rate hike was the first since december 2003 and had been well-flagged in advance. however  opposition parties and some analysts said the move was ill-timed given data showing the australian economy grew just 0.1% between october and december and 1.5% on an annual basis.  the figures  representing a decline from the 0.2% growth in gdp seen between july and september  were below market expectations. consumer spending remains strong  however  and the bank is concerned about growing inflationary pressures.  over recent months it has become increasingly clear that remaining spare capacity in the labour and goods markets is becoming rather limited   said ian macfarlane  governor of the reserve bank.  at 2.6%  inflation remains within the bank s 2-3% target range. however  exports declined in the second half of 2004  fuelling a rise in the country s current account deficit - the difference in the value of imports compared to exports - to a record australian dollar 29.4bn. the australian government said the economy remained strong with unemployment at a near 30 year low.  the economy has been strong and it is properly moderating but it doesn t look to me like it s slowing in any unreasonable way   said treasurer peter costello. stock markets had factored in the likelihood of a rate rise but analysts still expressed concern about the strength of the economy.  that 1.5% annual growth rate is the lowest we have seen since the post-election slump we saw back in 2000-1   said michael blythe  chief economist at the commonwealth bank of australia.  this suggests the economy really did slow very sharply in the second half of 2004.
politics,commons hunt protest charges eight protesters who stormed the house of commons chamber during a debate on the hunting bill have been charged with disorderly conduct.  the men were arrested in september after bursting into the chamber causing a hunting ban debate to be halted. those charged included otis ferry  the 22-year-old son of rock star bryan ferry and luke tomlinson  27  a close friend of princes william and harry. they were charged under section 5 of the public order act  police said.  five of the eight men held an impromptu news conference outside charing cross police station on monday evening  after the charges were formerly put to them. the men s solicitor matthew knight  said that at no time had it occurred to the men that they were committing a criminal offence.   there is no offence of trespassing in the house of commons - it is not a criminal offence   he said.  if parliament wanted to make entering the house of commons chamber on foot a criminal offence it should have done so  but it can t do so retrospectively.  we are not prosecuted for that. we are prosecuted for a public order act offence. we are not guilty of it.  they will appear at bow street magistrates  court on 21 december  a police spokesman said. otis ferry  a former eton pupil and joint leader of the south shropshire hunt  said:  i have no regrets.  we have done nothing wrong beyond the obvious which was to stand up for our rights and not act like a sheep like the rest of the country.  one of the men  david redvers  34  from hartpury  gloucestershire  said he and the other seven protesters would plead not guilty to the charges.  the other protesters are john holliday  37  a huntsman from ledbury  herefordshire  robert thame  34  who plays polo with princes charles in team highgrove  auctioneer andrew elliot  42  from bromesberrow  near ledbury  point-to-point jockey richard wakeham  34  from york  and former royal chef nick wood  41. the 15 september protest came on the same day as a huge pro-hunting demonstration in parliament square. four of the men ran out from behind the speaker s chair while another wrestled past a doorkeeper from a different entrance. the five tried to confront mps before they were bundled out of the chamber and later led away handcuffed by police. three others had been intercepted by security staff as they tried to join the five in the chamber.  speaker michael martin later said the men had used a forged letter to gain access to the house of commons and had been helped to get close to the chamber by a parliamentary pass holder. in november  the use of the parliament act meant a total ban on hunting with dogs in england and wales. however  many pro-hunt activists remained defiant after the law was passed  saying they would ignore the ban and continue to hunt. last week  the countryside alliance said more than 250 hunts would meet legally the day after the ban on hunting with dogs comes into force. the alliance said the 19 february meets would show the new law was  impossibly difficult to determine  and open to different interpretations.
politics,mps to debate  euthanasia laws  mps are preparing to debate a bill which critics claim would legalise euthanasia  by the back door .  the bill would give legal force to  living wills   where people say they want medical treatment withheld if they become severely incapacitated. the mental capacity bill has broad support from charities who say it would give better safeguards over treatment. but christian groups say it could mean doctors withholding food and fluids even if they think it inappropriate.  ministers insist the mental capacity bill - for england and wales - would not change laws on assisted suicide and contains a presumption in favour of preserving life.  the bill would establish a legal presumption that everybody can make decisions about their own treatment unless proved otherwise. it would allow people to give somebody the power of attorney to make decisions on their behalf  which could be challenged by doctors. critics fear it could allow  killing by omission  through withdrawing treatment. an amendment to the bill - specifically preventing decisions that would bring about death - has been tabled by former conservative leader iain duncan smith. ninety one mps have signed a petition backing the amendment. mps could vote on it later on tuesday  during the bill s report stage debate. the bill will then go to a third reading and be debated in the lords  before becoming law.  the christian medical fellowship (cmf) and lawyers  christian fellowship (lcf) said the mental capacity bill would allow euthanasia by the  back door . peter saunders of the cmf said it believed advance refusals should be only advisory  not legally binding.  cmf is concerned that patients will make unwise and hasty advance decisions to refuse food and fluids without being properly informed about the diagnosis and the expected course their illness will take   he said.  the lcf s andrea williams said there were  too many loopholes that could be abused by unscrupulous doctors . ex-labour minister frank field told bbc two s newsnight programme there was a danger people would feel under pressure to  do away  with themselves so relatives could inherit their assets.  constitutional affairs minister david lammy said laws affecting 750 000 people with dementia needed updating. mr lammy told bbc news labour mps would not get a free vote as the law was being strengthened  not changed.  we are against euthanasia  we are against assisted suicide but we are in a situation now where people can make living wills and that has the force of the common law   he said.  doctors are saying they want more clarity. patients are saying they want more clarity.  the making decisions alliance  which includes the alzheimer s society  age concern  mencap and the national autistic society  said misunderstandings over the bill had to be cleared up.  it will not change the current law on euthanasia and will actually provide a series of better safeguards when decisions are made for people who lack capacity   the alliance said in a statement. the british medical association also backs the bill  saying it just gives incapacitated people the same rights as others. debate on legalising euthanasia has intensified in the uk because of cases like that of motor neurone patient diane pretty. she died two years ago after losing a legal battle to allow her husband to help her commit suicide.
business,chinese exports rise 25% in 2004 exports from china leapt during 2004 over the previous year as the country continued to show breakneck growth.  the spurt put china s trade surplus - a sore point with some of its trading partners - at a six-year high. it may also increase pressure on china to relax the peg joining its currency  the yuan  with the weakening dollar. the figures released by the ministry of commerce come as china s tax chief confirmed that growth had topped 9% in 2004 for the second year in a row. state administration of taxation head xie xuren said a tightening of controls on tax evasion had combined with the rapid expansion to produce a 25.7% rise in tax revenues to 2.572 trillion yuan ($311bn; £165bn).  according to the ministry of commerce  china s exports totalled $63.8bn in december  taking the annual total up 35.4% to $593.4bn. with imports rising a similar amount  the deficit rose to $43.4bn. the increased tax take comes despite healthy tax rebates for many exporters totalling 420bn yuan in 2004  according to mr xie. china s exporting success has made the trade deficit of the united states soar even further and made trade with china a sensitive political issue in washington. the peg keeping the yuan around 8.30 to the dollar is often blamed by us lawmakers for job losses at home. a us report issued on tuesday on behalf of a congressionally-mandated panel said almost 1.5 million posts disappeared between 1989 and 2003. the pace accelerated in the final three years of the period  said the report for the us-china economic and security review commission  moving out of labour-intensive industries and into more hi-tech sectors. the us s overall trade deficit with china was $124bn in 2003  and is expected to rise to about $150bn for 2004.
entertainment,carry on star patsy rowlands dies actress patsy rowlands  known to millions for her roles in the carry on films  has died at the age of 71.  rowlands starred in nine of the popular carry on films  alongside fellow regulars sid james  kenneth williams and barbara windsor. she also carved out a successful television career  appearing for many years in itv s well-loved comedy bless this house. rowlands died in hove on saturday morning  her agent said.  born in january 1934  rowlands won a scholarship to the guildhall school of speech and drama scholarship when she was just 15.  after spending several years at the players theatre in london  she made her film debut in 1963 in tom jones  directed by tony richardson. she made her first carry on film in 1969 where she appeared in carry on again doctor. rowlands played the hard-done-by wife or the put-upon employee as a regular carry on star. she also appeared in carry on at your convenience  carry on matron and carry on loving  as well as others.  in recent years she appeared in bbc mini-series the cazalets and played mrs potts in the london stage version of beauty and the beast. agent simon beresford said:  she was just an absolutely favourite client she never complained about anything  particularly when she was ill  she was an old trouper.  she was of the old school - she had skills from musical theatre and high drama  that is why she worked with the great and the good of directors.  she didn t mind always being recognised for the carry on films because she thoroughly enjoyed making them. she was a really lovely person and she will be much missed.  her last appearance on stage was as mrs pearce in the award-winning production of my fair lady at the national theatre. previously married  she leaves one son  alan. her funeral will be a private  family occasion  with a memorial service at a later date.
sport,gb quartet get cross country call four british athletes have been pre-selected to compete at the world cross country championships in march after impressive starts to the season.  hayley yelling  jo pavey  karl keska and adam hickey will represent team gb at the event in france. yelling clinched the women s european cross country title last month and pavey followed up with bronze. keska helped the men s team to overall third place while hickey finished in 10th place on his junior debut.  winning the european cross country title meant so much to me   said yelling.  and being pre-selected for the worlds means that i can focus on preparing in the best way possible.  the 32-year-old will race alongside olympic 5 000m finalist pavey in the women s 8km race on 19 march. keska  who has made a successful return from a long-term injury lay-off  contests the men s 12km race on 20 march  while 16-year-old hickey goes in the junior men s 8km on the same day. the rest of the team will be named after the trials at wollaton park in nottingham  which take place on 5 march.
business,yukos owner sues russia for $28bn the majority owner of embattled russian oil firm yukos has sued the russian government for $28.3bn (£15.2bn).  the kremlin last year seized and sold yukos  main production arm  yugansk  to state-run oil group rosneft for $9.3bn to offset a massive back tax bill. group menatep  the gibraltar-based holding company which controls 51% of yukos  says this was illegal. menatep has already asked rosneft to repay a $900m loan that yugansk had secured on its assets.  the russian government s argument for selling yuganskneftegaz - the unit s full name - was that yukos owed more than $27bn in back taxes for the years from 2000 onwards. it accused the firm of using a web of offshore firms to avoid its tax liabilities  and the courts sent in bailiffs to freeze yukos accounts and seize yugansk.  but critics say the sell-off  and the assault on yukos  finances  are part of an attempt to bring the energy industry back under state control. according to menatep  the government s actions were contrary to the 1994 energy charter treaty  which was designed to regulate disagreements over energy investments.  we have warned the russian government about their continuing attacks against yukos  its personnel and its shareholders and we have warned any buyer of yuganskneftegaz that they would face a lifetime of litigation   said tim osborne  a director of group menatep.  the time for warning is over and actions to recover the value of our losses begin in earnest today.   menatep said the value of its yukos shareholding had gone from $17.8bn to  virtually nothing  since 2003 as a result of the russian government s action  as its shares have fallen 97%. according to its paris lawyer  emmanuel gaillard of shearman and sterling  the overall claim is based on that figure  with a 60% addition for the share gains that could have accrued since then. arbitration of the lawsuit could take place in stockholm or the hague  mr gaillard said. while russia has signed the charter  it has never ratified it - which some experts say could make it difficult for menatep to press its case. but mr gaillard told bbc news that the charter came into effect on signature  not ratification.  russia has said in the past that it is bound by it  so as to attract foreign investors   he said.  yukos is still waiting to see what will happen to its filing in a us court for bankruptcy protection. it took the action to try to prevent the forced sale of yugansk - first to a little-known shell company  which in turn was bought by rosneft. yukos claims its downfall was punishment for the political ambitions of its founder mikhail khodorkovsky. mr khodorkovsky  currently facing fraud and tax evasion charges of his own  was one of the founders of menatep. he has since signed over his shareholding to one of his fellow investors.
business,arsenal  may seek full share listing  arsenal vice-chairman david dein has said the club may consider seeking a full listing for its shares on the london stock exchange.  speaking at the soccerex football business forum in dubai  he said a full listing was  one of the options  for funding after the club moves to its new stadium. the club - which is currently listed on the smaller ofex share exchange - is due to move into its new 60 000-seater emirates stadium at ashburton grove for the start of the 2006/07 season. mr dein also warned the current level of tv coverage of the premiership may be reaching saturation level  with signs that match attendances have been dropping off in the first few months of this season.  when arsenal moves to its new stadium it will see its proportion of turnover from media earnings drop from 52% this season to 34% in two years  time. the club is hoping to increase matchday earnings from 29% to 40% of turnover  and has not ruled out other money-earning means  including a full share listing.  when the new stadium opens we will go through a thorough financial review   mr dein said.   listing would be one option  but we are flexible and no decisions have been made on that issue yet.  we want to be in the best financial health - maybe clubs can do it (listing)  manchester united have been a success.   mr dein said that  although television money and coverage had driven the english game forward in the past 10 years  he feared there might now be too many games being shown. since the formation of the premier league in season 1992/93  premiership clubs have seen their income from television soar.  television has been the driving force over the past 10 years... but we must constantly improve if we want to remain as the world s leading league competition.  we must monitor the quality of the product and ensure attendances do not decline  and we must balance that with the quantity of exposure on tv too.  i think we have practically reached saturation point... sometimes i think less is more.   the club is funding its move to ashburton grove through a number of sources  including debt from banks  from money it already has and will receive in coming years from sponsors  and from the sale of surplus property  including its highbury stadium. it is also looking to create new revenue streams from overseas markets  including asia.  we have two executives travelling round japan and china at the moment building relationships with organisations and clubs  and we know our supporters clubs are growing there too  as they are around the world.  we have got a very good product  so it is very important we go and look at these markets  and make sure we are on the case.
sport,keegan hails comeback king fowler manchester city boss kevin keegan has praised striker robbie fowler for his landmark return to form.  the 29-year-old  out of favour at city earlier this season  took his premiership goal tally past 150 with a brace in monday s 3-2 win at norwich.  he is still a quality player and knows where the net is - we have just got to supply him with ammunition and  in the end  we did   keegan said.  he has worked hard to get back to where he is now.  the former liverpool striker  who moved to city in 2003 after a poor stint at leeds  has battled back into first-team contention after struggling with fitness at the start of the season.  fowler overtook les ferdinand on tuesday evening to become the third highest scorer of all time in the premiership  with 151 goals  and he only trails alan shearer (250) and andy cole (173). and keegan believes there is still more to come from the former england forward.  he can get better if we can supply him better   added keegan.  people want to write him off but if he has kept the articles of those people who have written him off he could throw them back at them and they would be left with a bit of egg on their face.  fowler s double strike helped city come back from two goals down to clinch a dramatic win at carrow road and keegan sympathised with norwich boss nigel worthington afterwards.  i feel a bit for nigel worthington   he said.  his team have got great character  they have a lot of drive and enthusiasm.  i know it is a killer blow for norwich but i really think they have brought something to the premiership.  the stadium and the atmosphere is great  it is just a tough league to stay in - as they are finding out and as we know.
tech,blogger grounded by her airline a us airline attendant is fighting for her job after she was suspended over postings on her blog  or online diary.  queen of the sky  otherwise known as ellen simonetti  evolved into an anonymous semi-fictional account of life in the sky. but after she posted pictures of herself in uniform  delta airlines suspended her indefinitely without pay. ms simonetti was told her suspension was a result of  inappropriate  images. delta airlines declined to comment.   i was really shocked  i had no warning   ms simonetti told bbc news online.  i never thought i would get in trouble because of the blog. i thought if they had a problem  someone would have said something before taking action.  the issue has highlighted concerns amongst the growing blogging community about conflicts of interest  employment law and free speech on personal websites. ms simonetti was suspended on 25 september pending an investigation and has since lodged a complaint with the us equal employment opportunity commission (eeoc). a spokesperson for delta airlines told bbc news online:  all i can tell you is we do not discuss internal employee issues with the media.  she added she could not say whether a similar situation over personal websites had occurred in the past.  ms simonetti started her personal blog in january to help her get over her mother s death. she had ensured she made no mention of which airline she worked for  and created fictional names for cities and companies. the airline s name was changed to anonymous airline and the city in which she was based was called quirksville. a large part of the blog contained fictional stories because queen of the sky developed over the months as a character in her own right  according to ms simonetti.  the images were taken from a digital camera she had inherited from her mother.  we often take pictures on flight or on layovers. i just though why not include them on my blog for fun.  i never meant it as something to harm my company and don t understand how they think it did harm them   ms simonetti said. she has also claimed that pictures of male delta airline employees in uniform are freely available on the web. of the 10 or so images on the site  only one showed ms simonetti s flight  wings .  they did not tell me which pictures they had a problem with. i am just assuming it was the one of me posing on seats where my skirt rode up   she said. the images were removed as soon as she learned she had been suspended. as far as ms simonetti knows  there is no company anti-blogging policy. there is guidance which suggests the company uniform cannot be used without approval from management  but use in personal pictures on websites is unclear.  jeffrey matsuura  director of the law and technology programme at the university of dayton  said personal websites can be hazardous for both employers and their employees.  there are many examples of employees who have presented some kind of material online that have gotten them in trouble with employers   he said. it was crucial that any policy about what was and what was not acceptable was expressed clearly  was reasonable  and enforced fairly in company policy.  you have to remember that as an employee  you don t have total free speech anymore   he said. mr matsuura added that some companies actively encouraged employees to blog.  one of the areas where it does become a problem is that they encourage this when it suits them  but they may not be particularly clear when they [employees] do cross the line.  he speculated that delta might be concerned that the fictional content on the blog may be linked back to the airline after the images of ms simonetti in uniform were posted.  whether or not that is successful will depend on what exactly is prohibited  and whether you can reasonably say this content now crosses that line   he said. ms simonetti said her suspension has caused two of her friends to discontinue their blogs. one of them was asked to stop blogging by his company before any action was taken.  if they had asked me just take down the blog  i would have done it  but that was not been given to me as an option   she said.  this blogging thing is obviously a new problem for employers and they need to get a policy about it. if i had known it would cost me my job  i would not have done that.
sport,kenyon denies robben barca return chelsea chief executive peter kenyon has played down reports that arjen robben will return for the champions league match against barcelona.   he s been responding well to treatment and started running on friday  but we ll have to wait and see   he told bbc five live s sportsweek.  we re looking to getting him back as soon as possible  but he ll be back when it s right for him and for us.  there s no plans at the moment around the barcelona game.  his comments contradict those of chiropractor jean pierre meersseman who treated the dutchman after he fractured his foot at the start of february. robben had been expected to be out for six weeks  but meersseman hinted that the winger could be fit for the vital stamford bridge game on 8 march.  i hope he can be back and i will try to help him make that happen   meersseman told the mail on sunday.  i put everything right with arjen s foot the last time i saw him 12 days ago. it was an obvious correction and easy to perform.  i know he was pleased with what i did and now that he is running again. i am due to see him one more time again in the next few days.  meersseman is the medical co-ordinator at italian side ac milan.
tech,xbox power cable  fire fear  microsoft has said it will replace more than 14 million power cables for its xbox consoles due to safety concerns.  the company said the move was a  preventative step  after reports of fire hazard problems with the cables. it affects xboxes made before 23 october 2003 for all regions but mainland europe - and consoles in that region made before 13 january 2004. microsoft said it had received 30 reports of minor injury or property damage due to faulty cables. the firm said fewer than one in 10 000 consoles had experienced component failures. the recall affects almost three quarters of all xboxes sold around the world since its launch in 2001.  in a statement  it added:  in almost all instances  any damage caused by these failures was contained within the console itself or limited to the tip of the power cord at the back of the console.  but in seven cases  customers reported sustaining a minor burn to their hand. in 23 cases  customers reported smoke damage  or minor damage to a carpet or entertainment centre.  this is a preventative step we re choosing to take despite the rarity of these incidents   said robbie bach  senior vice president  microsoft home and entertainment division.  we regret the inconvenience  but believe offering consumers a free replacement cord is the responsible thing to do.  consumers can order a new cable from the xbox website or by telephoning 0800 028 9276 in the uk. microsoft said customers would get replacement cords within two to four weeks from the time of order. it advised users to turn off their xboxes when not in use. a follow-up to xbox is expected to released at the end of this year or the beginning of 2006.
tech,sony wares win innovation award sony has taken the prize for top innovator at the annual awards of pc pro magazine.  it won the award for taking risks with products and for its  brave  commitment to good design. conferring the award  pc pro s staff picked out sony s pcg-x505/p vaio laptop as a  stunning piece of engineering . the electronics giant beat off strong competition from toshiba and chip makers amd and intel to take the gong.  paul trotter  news and features editor of pc pro  said several sony products helped it to take the innovation award.  he said sony s clie peg ux50 media player with its swivel screen and qwerty keyboard  broke the design rules yet again . other sony products that helped included the vaio w1 desktop computer and the ra-104 media server. mr trotter said sony s combining of computer  screen and keyboard in the w1 was likely to be widely copied in future home pcs. the company has also become one of the first to use organic leds in its products.  while not always inventing new technology itself  sony was never afraid to innovate around various formats   said mr trotter.  other awards decided by pc pro s staff and contributors included one for canon s eos 300d digital camera in the most wanted hardware category.  microsoft s media player 10 took the award for most wanted software. this year was the 10th anniversary of the pc pro awards  which splits its prizes into two sections. the first are chosen by the magazine s writers and consultants  the second are voted for by readers. mr trotter said more than 13 000 people voted for the reliability and service awards  twice as many as in 2003. net-based memory and video card shop crucial shared the award for online vendor of the year with novatech.
sport,almagro continues spanish surge unseeded nicolas almagro became the fifth spaniard to reach the last eight at the buenos aires open  ousting eighth seed mariano zabaleta.  he showed admirable resolve to win a rain-affected match 6-7 6-4 6-4. compatriot and seventh seed rafael nadal also reached the last eight  beating italian potito starace 6-1 6-3. nadal  playing in the outdoor clay event for the first time  hit some powerful forehands to oust starace in a match delayed over an hour by rain.  it s always a problem to have to stop for rain but one gets used to it   said spanish teenager nadal.  luckily  i was able to keep my pace going throughout the match.  he will now play gaston gaudio  who beat unseeded brazilian flavio saretta 6-3 6-2 in the day s late match.
business,deutsche boerse set to  woo  lse bosses of deutsche boerse and the london stock exchange are to meet amid talk that a takeover bid for the lse will be raised to £1.5bn ($2.9bn).  last month  the german exchange tabled a 530 pence-per-share offer for lse  valuing it at £1.3bn. paris-based euronext  owner of liffe in london  has also said it is interested in bidding for lse. euronext is due to hold talks with lse this week and it is reported to be ready to raise £1.4bn to fund a bid. euronext chief jean-francois theodore is scheduled to meet his lse counterpart clara furse on friday. deutsche boerse chief werner seifert is meeting ms furse on thursday  in the third meeting between the two exchanges since the bid approach in december.  the lse rejected deutsche boerse s proposed £1.3bn offer in december  saying it undervalued the business.  but it agreed to leave the door open for talks to find out whether a  significantly-improved proposal  would be in the interests of lse s shareholders and customers. in the meantime  euronext  which combines the paris  amsterdam and lisbon stock exchanges  also began talks with the lse. in a statement on thursday  euronext said any offer was likely to be solely in cash  but added that:  there can be no assurances at this stage that any offer will be made.  a deal with either bidder would create the biggest stock market operator in europe and the second biggest in the world after the new york stock exchange.  according to the ft  in its latest meeting deutsche boerse will adopt a charm offensive to woo the london exchange. the newspaper said the german suitor will offer to manage a combined cash and equities market out of london and let ms furse take the helm. other reports this week said the deutsche boerse might even consider selling its luxembourg-based clearstream unit - the clearing house that processes securities transactions. its ownership of clearstream was seen as the main stumbling block to a london-frankfurt merger. lse shareholders feared a deutsche boerse takeover would force them to use clearstream  making it difficult for them to negotiate for lower transaction fees.
sport,veteran martinez wins thai title conchita martinez won her first title in almost five years with victory over anna-lena groenefeld at the volvo women s open in pattaya  thailand.  the 32-year-old spaniard came through 6-3 3-6 6-3 for her first title since berlin in 2000.  it feels really good   said martinez  who is playing her last season on the tour.  to come through like that in an important match feels good.  it s been nearly five years and i didn t think i could do it.  groenefeld was the more powerful player but could not match her opponent s relentless accuracy.  it was my first final  a new experience   said the german.  i think she played a good match  a tough match  but i tried to stay in there. i think the whole week was good for me.
politics,mcconnell in  drunk  remark row scotland s first minister has told a group of high school pupils that it is okay to get drunk  once in a while .  jack mcconnell was speaking to more than 100 secondary pupils from schools in the highlands about the problems of binge drinking and drink promotions. he has been criticised by the snp for encouraging young people to get drunk. but the scottish executive has insisted mr mcconnell was speaking about adults and his comments were  a recognition that people will get drunk . the first minister s comments came in a question and answer session at glenurquhart high school in inverness  attended by pupils from a number of secondary schools. a highland councillor who was at the event has also defended mr mcconnell. margaret davidson  the independent member for the loch ness west  said the first minister was speaking in a very general way and she was sure he was speaking about adults at the time.  when one pupil asked mr mcconnell how the executive proposed to tackle under-age drinking  began his response with the quip:  i m sure there s no under-age drinking in the highlands.  he went on to speak about the evils of binge drinking and railed against irresponsible drinks promotions. he said:  i hope i m not going to be seen as preaching to anybody here but the really serious problem at the moment is binge drinking and the impact it has on people s health and their ability to control what s happening round about them.  mr mcconnell said he regularly saw reports on the effects of binge drinking sprees which ended in assaults or even rapes  and on the health consequences of binge drinking.  the one thing we are going to do something really serious about is binge drinking and irresponsible drinks promotions that can help lead to that   he said.  far too many pub chains in particular are selling far too much booze far too cheaply and encouraging people to drink it far too quickly.  we are go to clamp down on that and make those promotions illegal in the hope that people can enjoy a drink sensibly over the course of an evening.   he added:  by all means get drunk once in a while - but do not get into a situation where people are being encouraged to get completely incapable just to save some money and drink more quickly.  snp holyrood leader nicola sturgeon said:  this is an incredible gaffe by jack mcconnell.  we all know that under-age drinking is an issue in scotland but it is quite staggering that any politician  particularly the first minister  should encourage young people to get drunk.  the first minister should withdraw these remarks immediately.  but an executive spokeswoman insisted mr mcconnell had made the remark with adults  not youngsters  in mind.  he was talking in the context of adults binge drinking and irresponsible drinks promotions - which are for the over-18s   she said.  it was just a recognition that people will get drunk  but that binge drinking and drinks promotions that encourage it are not acceptable.
entertainment,grammys honour soul star charles the memory of soul legend ray charles dominated the music world s leading music ceremony on sunday as he was given eight posthumous grammy awards.  charles  who died in 2004  got honours including record and album of the year  while alicia keys and actor jamie foxx performed a musical tribute to him. r&b star keys won four awards herself at the grammy ceremony in los angeles. u2  usher  norah jones and kanye west got three each. west led the race going into the ceremony with 10 nominations.  charles  last album  genius loves company  a collection of duets that has sold more than two million copies  was named album of the year and best pop vocal album. his song here we go again with norah jones won record of the year and best pop vocal collaboration  while heaven help us all with gladys knight picked up best gospel performance. jones said:  i m glad he s getting recognised  because of who he is and how much i love him.  actor jamie foxx - who is nominated for an oscar for playing charles in the hit movie ray - dedicated a rendition of georgia on my mind to  old friends . keys  looking to replicate her grammys success of 2002  when she won five  picked up best r&b song for you don t know my name and best r&b album for the diary of alicia keys. she also shared the award for best r&b vocal performance by a duo or group with usher for my boo.  usher s other victories were for best contemporary r&b album for confessions and best rap/sung collaboration for yeah!  featuring lil jon and ludacris. kanye west dominated the rap categories  winning best rap song for jesus walks and best rap album for the college dropout. but in one of the night s biggest shocks  he lost out in the battle to be named best new artist to pop rock act maroon 5. vertigo by rock giants u2 won three trophies - best rock song  best short video and best rock vocal performance by a duo or group. one of the other main awards  song of the year  went to us singer-songwriter john mayer for daughters. mayer also won best male pop vocal performance. britney spears picked up her first ever grammy for her song toxic  which was named best dance recording.  rod stewart also won the first grammy of his career  getting the best traditional pop album award for stardust... the great american songbook: volume iii. in 2003  stewart said he was  astounded  he had never won a grammy - but  they tend not to give it to the british unless you re sting . there were few other high-profile british victors this year. annie lennox  metal group motorhead and dance act basement jaxx all took home trophies. but elvis costello  who had four nominations  and joss stone and franz ferdinand  who were both up for three awards  got nothing.  beach boys veteran brian wilson was another first-time winner - for best rock instrumental performance.  it represents triumph and achievement in music that i feel that i deserved  and i m really glad i won   he said. a live recording of composer john adams  11 september tribute  on the transmigration of souls  performed by the new york philharmonic  won three classical prizes. and former us president bill clinton picked up the second grammy of his career  winning the spoken word award for the audio version of his autobiography my life.
politics,kinnock to urge reform in lords neil kinnock has said his acceptance of a seat in the house of lords will allow him to help  achieve further progress with substantial democratic reform.   on the bbc s breakfast with frost it was put to mr kinnock that he had once referred to lords members as  brigands  muggers  bribers and gangsters . but the outgoing european commissioner said his comments - made some 26 years ago - needed to be put in context. he said advocates for reform needed to be inside the lords to vote for it.  it was pointed out to me that if the additional democratic reform is going to take place it is going to require advocates in the lords and people there willing to vote for it.   mr kinnock added that the second factor behind his acceptance of the peerage was his appointment as chairman of the british council.  history demonstrates that it s immensely useful for the british council to have its chairman in the house of lords and that was a conclusive factor.  mr kinnock said he thought about the decision for  quite a long time  because he had long had reservations about the lords. but he added:  the process of reform has developed substantially but not sufficiently  and consequently i did take all these factors into consideration because it s not a decision to be made glibly.  the former labour leader said he would probably take the title of lord kinnock of bedwellty - his first constituency for which he was selected in 1969.
business,the  ticking budget  facing the us the budget proposals laid out by the administration of us president george w bush are highly controversial. the washington-based economic policy institute  which tends to be critical of the president  looks at possible fault lines. us politicians and citizens of all political persuasions are in for a dose of shock therapy. without major changes in current policies and political prejudices  the federal budget simply cannot hold together. news coverage of the bush budget will be dominated by debates about spending cuts  but the fact is these will be large cuts in small programs. from the standpoint of the big fiscal trends  the cuts are gratuitous and the big budget train wreck is yet to come. under direct threat will be the federal government s ability to make good on its debts to the social security trust fund. as soon as 2018  the fund will begin to require some cash returns on its bond holdings in order to finance all promised benefits.  the trigger for the coming shock will be rising federal debt  which will grow in 10 years  by conservative estimates  to more than half the nation s total annual output.  this upward trend will force increased borrowing by the federal government  putting upward pressure on interest rates faced by consumers and business. even now  a growing share of us borrowing is from abroad. the us government cannot finance its operations without heavy borrowing from the central banks of japan and china  among other nations. this does not bode well for us influence in the world. the decline of the dollar is a warning sign that current economic trends cannot continue. the dollar is already sinking. before too long  credit markets are likely to react  and interest rates will creep upwards. that will be the shock.  interest-sensitive industries will feel pain immediately - sectors such as housing  automobiles  other consumer durables  agriculture  and small business. some will recall the news footage of angry farmers driving their heavy equipment around the us capitol in the late 1970s. there will be no need for constitutional amendments to balance the budget. the public outcry will force congress to act. whether it will act wisely is another matter. how did this happen   by definition  the deficit means too little revenue and too much spending - but this neutral description doesn t adequately capture the current situation. federal revenues are at 1950s levels  while spending remains where it has been in recent decades - much higher. in addition  the united states has two significant military missions. the bush administration s chosen remedy is the least feasible one. reducing domestic spending  or eliminating  waste  fraud and abuse  is toothless because this slice of the budget is too small to solve the problem. indeed  if congress were rash enough to balance the budget in this way  there would hardly be any such spending left. law enforcement  space exploration  environmental clean-up  economic development  the small business administration  housing  veterans  benefits  aid to state and local governments would all but disappear. it s fantasy to think these routine government functions could be slashed. the biggest spending growth areas are defence (including homeland security)  and health care for the elderly and the poor. to some extent  increases in these areas are inevitable. the us population is aging  and the nation does face genuine threats in the world. but serious savings can only be found where the big money is. savings in health care spending that do not come at the expense of health can only be achieved with wholesale reform of the entire system  public and private. brute force budget cuts or spending caps would ill-serve the nation s elderly and indigent.  on the revenue side  the lion s share of revenue lost to tax cuts enacted since 2000 will have to be replaced.  some rearranging could hold many people harmless and focus most of the pain on those with relatively high incomes. finally  blind allegiance to a balanced budget will have to be abandoned. there is no good reason to fixate on it  anyway. moderate deficits and slowly rising federal debt can be sustained indefinitely. borrowing for investments in education and infrastructure that pay off in future years makes sense. the sooner we face that reality  the sooner workable reforms can be pursued. first on the list should be tax reform to raise revenue  simplify the tax code  and restore some fairness eroded by the bush tax cuts. second should be a dispassionate re-evaluation of the huge increase in defence spending over the past three years  much of it unrelated to afghanistan  iraq  or terrorism. third must be the start of a serious debate on large-scale health care reform. one thing is certain - destroying the budget in order to save it is not going to equip the us economy and government for the challenges of this new century.
politics,blair  said he would stand down  tony blair promised gordon brown he would stand down before the next election  a new book about the chancellor claims.  but the prime minister changed his mind following intervention from allies in the cabinet  according to the book. the book by sunday telegraph journalist robert peston said the pair had  mutual animosity and contempt  for each other. the book  brown s britain  said tony blair felt by november 2003 he had lost voters  trust.  the author s sources  all unnamed  allies  of mr blair and mr brown  said the prime minister felt the iraq war had undermined him and that he was no longer an asset to the labour party.  the book  serialised in the sunday telegraph  alleges that mr blair told the chancellor at a dinner hosted by deputy pm john prescott in november 2003 of his intention to stand down.  at that stage he saw gordon brown and said   look you are the next most influential member of the government  i need your help to get through the next year   mr peston said.  i myself recognise that i m going to have to stand down before the election but help me to get through the year and i will then stand down.   but he changed his mind in june 2004  following intervention from allies in the cabinet and the suspicion that the chancellor was deliberately manoeuvring against him  the book claims.  mr peston told bbc news:  my understanding is that they are not nearly as close or as friendly as they once were.  what the book says is there now a pretty profound mutual mistrust  mutual animosity.  i think in public you see this double act pretending everything is alright but in private i don t think the relationship is good because brown  understandably  feels deeply betrayed - particularly over this issue of the leadership.  there has been fresh speculation of a rift recently  following their separate responses to the asian tsunami. rumours of a rift were fuelled by the sudden decision to hold mr blair s monthly media conference at the same time as a long-planned speech by mr brown on uk plans to tackle global poverty with a new  marshall plan  for africa. there was speculation the pair were trying to outdo each other s response to the disaster.  former welfare minister frank field mp criticised the reported rivalry between the pair on gmtv s sunday programme.   what sort of model does it give to the nation when the two most important political leaders do nothing but fight it out together or use their aides to fight it out   the labour mp for birkenhead asked. he said the prime minister should sack mr brown  but did not believe mr blair was strong enough to do so. conservative policy co-ordinator david cameron  mp for witney  added:  if it wasn t so serious it would be funny.  but it is serious - you ve got the two most senior people in the government not concentrating on fighting crime  poverty or dirty hospitals - they are fighting each other.  carol walker  bbc news 24 political correspondent  added:  there is a real concern that this could undermine the general election campaign.  and clearly it is very bad news for the government at a time when it is trying to explain what it is doing to respond to the terrible problems thrown up by the tsunami disaster.
business,french suitor holds lse meeting european stock market euronext has met with the london stock exchange (lse) amid speculation that it may be ready to launch a cash bid.  euronext chief jean-francois theodore held talks with lse boss clara furse the day after rival deutsche boerse put forward its own bid case. the german exchange said it had held  constructive  professional and friendly  talks with the lse. but euronext declined to comment after the talks ended on friday. speculation is mounting that the germans may raise their bid to £1.5bn. deutsche boerse previously offered £1.3bn  which was rejected by the lse  while euronext is rumoured to have facilities in place to fund a £1.4bn cash bid. so far  however  neither have tabled a formal bid. but a deal with either bidder would create the biggest stock market operator in europe and the second biggest in the world after the new york stock exchange.  there was speculation euronext would use friday s meeting as an opportunity to take advantage of growing disquiet over deutsche boerse s own plans for dominance over the london market. unions for deutsche boerse staff in frankfurt has reportedly expressed fears that up to 300 jobs would be moved to london if the takeover is successful.  the works council has expressed concerns that the equities and derivatives trade could be managed from london in the future   reuters news agency reports a union source as saying. german politicians are also said to be angry over the market operator s promise to move its headquarters to london if a bid were successful.  meanwhile  lse shareholders fear that deutsche boerse s control over its clearstream unit - the clearing house that processes securities transactions - would create a monopoly situation. this would weaken the position of shareholders when negotiating lower transaction fees for share dealings. lse and euronext do not have control over their clearing and settlement operations  a situation which critics say is more transparent and competitive. the german group s ownership of clearstream has been seen as the main stumbling block to a london-frankfurt merger. commentators believe deutsche boerse  which has now formally asked german authorities to approve its plan to buy the lse  may offer to sell clearstream to gain shareholder approval. euronext  so far  has given little away as to what sweeteners it will offer the lse - europe s biggest equity market - into a deal.
tech,gizmondo gadget hits the shelves the gizmondo combined media player  phone and gaming gadget goes on sale on saturday.  priced at £229  the handheld device is debuting in the uk and goes on sale in the us and mainland europe in the next few weeks. a catalogue of about 20 games is being prepared for the gadget including the great escape and conflict vietnam. the british-backed gadget faces stiff competition from handheld gaming devices made by nintendo and sony.  the gizmondo device packs a lot of functions inside its black cover and is aimed at gamers and those that want more from their game-playing gadgets.  it can be used to play games  music tracks and movies. it can take and store digital photos and be used like a mobile phone to send text  multimedia and e-mail messages. the phone service to enable people to send messages is being provided by pre-pay vodafone accounts bundled in with the device. it also works with gps (global position system) so can also be used as a navigation aid or to support a variety of location-based services. the gprs and bluetooth wireless data systems onboard mean that it can be used for multi-player gaming. the gadget will be available from the gizmondo store on london s regent street and from several other retail partners. although the device rolls together an impressive list of functions  it will face serious competition from three established names in mobile gaming: nintendo  nokia and sony.  the main competition is likely to come from nintendo and sony. nintendo s ds handheld went on sale on 11 march and priced at £99 costs far less than the gizmondo. it also has a ready pool of fans of earlier nintendo handhelds to draw on. in the first two days it was on sale in europe the 87 000 ds handhelds were sold - a better debut than the gamecube enjoyed. sony s psp was due to make its european debut in march but now this is likely to be delayed by a few months. the psp is due to go on sale in the us later this month and a bundle including the player  accessories and a copy of spiderman 2 is expected to cost about $250 (£129). the psp can also play music and movies and supports wireless multiplayer gaming. nokia s n-gage could also be a competitor on the telecommunications side. this too crams a fully functional phone into a gadget that also plays games.
politics,mp s shock at long lost daughter labour mp stephen pound has told of his shock and his joy on learning he fathered a daughter when he was  out of control  during the  wild  1960s.  lucy  36  tracked down mr pound after her birth mother told her he was known as  precious  at school. despite being told he was a  nutter who died at sea  she found a reference to mr pound on friends reunited. lucy s mother kept her pregnancy secret and had her adopted at four weeks. mr pound found out about it last year. that happened when lucy wrote to his parliamentary office saying she believed he was her father.  mr pound  who is now married with two other teenage children  said:  i was a nutter and i was a sailor but i wasn t dead.  he said his first reaction was to wonder if he was victim of a  set-up  but he then realised all the dates fitted.  it was a pretty horrible thing with a pretty happy ending. i felt guilt in the marrow of my bones   said the ealing north mp.  i don t blame lucy s mother. i was pretty much out of control. i was 18 when she was conceived. it was a different time - it was pretty wild.   mr pound says he rang lucy as soon as he got her letter  they met up and have been in contact ever since. describing that first meeting at london s king cross station  he said:  the earth went from under my feet ... we were walking across the euston road and i took her arm to take her across and there was an immediate connection.  we were finishing each other sentences.  lucy  who was adopted by a family from essex  wants to remain anonymous for the sake of her adoptive father and her children. mr pound said his wife maggie had been fully supportive and their two children emily  16  and pelham  14 were pleased to have an older sister.
entertainment,versace art portfolio up for sale the art collection of murdered fashion designer gianni versace could fetch up to £9m ($17m) when it is auctioned in new york and london later this year.  among the pictures for sale are works by roy lichtenstein  andy warhol and henri matisse. the collection was housed at versace s six-storey new york townhouse. the 51-year-old designer was shot outside his florida home in 1997 by suspected serial killer andrew cunanan  who later killed himself. the auction  at sotheby s  will feature 45 contemporary  impressionist and 19th century paintings. one of the highlights of the sale is roy lichtenstein s blue nude which has been given an estimate of £1.8m ($3.4m).  tobias meyer  sotheby s worldwide head of contemporary art  said:  this collection reflects mr versace s wide-ranging taste and impeccable eye  and many of the works were commissioned directly from the artists.  outstanding later examples from champions of the pop movement  such as roy lichtenstein  are juxtaposed with masterpieces from the most visible artists of the 1980 s  including jean-michel basquiat and the collaborative genius of basquiat and warhol  as well as francesco clemente.  much of the collection will be offered for sale at three auctions in new york in june  with smaller contemporary paintings going under the hammer in london on 22 and 23 june. a sale of versace s furniture and artworks sold in 2001fetched £5.5m ($10.3m).
politics,lib dems predict  best ever poll  the lib dems are set for their best results in both the general election and the local council polls  one of their frontbenchers has predicted.  local government spokesman ed davey was speaking as the party launched its campaign for the local elections being held in 37 english council areas. the flagship pledge is to replace council tax with a local income tax. the tories say the lib dems would make people pay more tax and labour says the party s sums do not add up. looking to the coming elections  which are all expected to be held on 5 may  mr davey said:  we are going to be winning more votes and winning more seats.  i think we are going to have the best general election results and local election results we have ever had under [party leader] charles kennedy.  i couldn t think of a stronger endorsement of a leader.
tech,portable playstation ready to go sony s playstation portable (psp) will go on sale in japan on 12 december.  the long-awaited handheld game playing gadget will cost about 19 800 yen (145 euros) when it hits the shelves. at launch 21 games will be available for the psp  including need for speed  ridge racer  metal gear acid and vampire chronicle. sony has not yet announced when the psp will be available in europe and the us  but analysts expect it to debut in those territories in early 2005.  fifa 2005 is back at the top of the uk games charts  a week after losing it to rival pro evolution soccer 4. konami s pro evo dropped only one place to two  while the only new entry in the top 10 was another football title  lma manager 2005  in at number seven. tony hawk s underground 2 held its own at three  while star wars battlefront inched up to four places to four. there was good news for disney  with the spin-off from the shark s tale film moving up the charts into number eight.  fans of the gran turismo series in europe are going to have to wait until next year for the latest version. sony has said that the pal version of gt4 will not be ready for christmas.  the product is localised into 13 different languages across the pal territories  therefore the process takes considerably longer than it does in japan   it said. gran turismo 4 for the playstation 2 is still expected to be released in japan and the usa this year.  halo 2 has broken video game records  with pre-orders of more than 1.5 million in the us alone. some 6 500 us stores plan to open just after midnight on tuesday 9 november for the game s release.  halo 2 is projected to bring in more revenue than any day one box office blockbuster movie in the united states   said xbox s peter moore.  we ve even heard rumours of fan anticipation of the  halo 2 flu  on 9 november.
business,card fraudsters  targeting web  new safeguards on credit and debit card payments in shops has led fraudsters to focus on internet and phone payments  an anti-fraud agency has said.  anti-fraud consultancy retail decisions says  card-not-present  fraud  where goods are paid for online or by phone  has risen since the start of 2005. the introduction of  chip and pin  cards has tightened security for transactions on the high street. but the clampdown has caused fraudsters to change tack  retail decisions said.  the introduction of chip and pin cards aimed to cut down on credit card fraud in stores by asking shoppers to verify their identity with a confidential personal pin number  instead of a signature. retail decisions chief executive carl clump told the bbc that there was  no doubt  that chip and pin would  reduce card fraud in the card-present environment .  however  it is important to monitor what happens in the card-not-present environment as fraudsters will turn their attention to the internet  mail order  telephone order and interactive tv   he said.  we have seen a 22% uplift in card-not-present fraud here in the uk... since the start of the year.  fraud doesn t just disappear  it mutates to the next weakest link in the chain   he said.  retail decisions  survey on the implementation of chip and pin found that shoppers had adapted easily to the new system  but that banks  performance in distributing the new cards had been patchy  at best.  the main issue is that not everyone has the pins they need   said mr clump. nearly two thirds - 65% - of the 1 000 people interviewed said they had used chip and pin to make payments. of these  83% were happy with the experience  though nearly a quarter said they struggled to remember their pin number. however  only 34% said they had received replacement cards with the necessary  chip  technology from all their card providers. furthermore  16% said that none of their cards had been replaced  while 30% said only some had. uk shoppers spent £5.3bn on plastic cards in 2003  the last full year for which figures are available from the association of payment clearing services (apacs). altogether  card scams on uk-issued cards totalled £402.4m in 2003. card-not-present fraud rose an annual 6% to £116.4m  making it the biggest category even then. within this  internet fraud totalled £43m  apacs  figures show.
sport,holmes feted with further honour double olympic champion kelly holmes has been voted european athletics (eaa) woman athlete of 2004 in the governing body s annual poll.  the briton  made a dame in the new year honours list for taking 800m and 1 500m gold  won vital votes from the public  press and eaa member federations. she is only the second british woman to land the title after- sally gunnell won for her world 400m hurdles win in 1993. swedish triple jumper christian olsson was voted male athlete of the year. the accolade is the latest in a long list of awards that holmes has received since her success in athens. in addition to becoming a dame  she was also named the bbc sports personality of the year in december. her gutsy victory in the 800m also earned her the international association of athletics federations  award for the best women s performance in the world for 2004. and she scooped two awards at the british athletics writers  association annual dinner in october.
business,profits stall at china s lenovo profits at chinese computer firm lenovo have stood still amid slowing demand at home and stiffening competition.  the firm is in the international spotlight after last year signing a deal to buy the pc division of personal computer pioneer ibm. lenovo s profit for the three months to december was hk$327m (us$42m; £22m)  less than 1% up on the year before. chinese pc sales have risen by a fifth in each of the past two years  but are now growing more slowly. the company is still by far the biggest player in china  with more than a quarter of the market. but western firms such as dell and hewlett-packard are also mounting a more solid fight for market share in china  and lenovo s sales were down 3.7% by revenue to hk$6.31bn.  if the $1.75bn agreement lenovo signed with ibm on 8 december goes through  it will mark the end of an era. ibm pioneered the desktop pc market in the early 1980s  although strategic mis-steps helped lose it its early dominance. in any case  margins in pc market are now wafer thin  and profits have been hard to come by for most vendors except direct-sales giant dell. but investors have been less than impressed with lenovo s move  designed to take it out of china and further onto the world stage. its shares are down 20% since the announcement two months ago  largely because of the unprofitability of the unit it is buying. there have been rumours that the deal could be in trouble because us government agencies fear it could offer china opportunities for industrial espionage. the reports of the possibility of an investigation into the risk sent lenovo s shares up 6% in late january.
sport,ferguson fears milan cutting edge manchester united manager sir alex ferguson said his side s task against ac milan would not be made any easier by the absence of andriy shevchenko.  milan s talismanic european footballer of the year misses wednesday s champions league first-leg tie after fracturing his cheekbone.  it s a loss (to milan)  but it could be worse if they didn t have such quality to bring in   ferguson said.  how much they miss him i think they ll know tomorrow night.  ferguson said milan s front line would still represent a formidable challenge for his defenders.  they can play rui costa and play kaka forward. they can bring serginho in and they can play (jon dahl) tomasson   he said. ferguson s own goalscoring talisman ruud van nistelrooy is fit again  but the scot admitted he was unsure whether to start the dutchman  who has not played for three months.   ruud is the best striker in europe. what i have to judge is whether he will struggle with the early pace after being out for so long   he said.  his ability puts him in with a big shout but it is a major decision.  ferguson  though  is confident his young players  particularly wayne rooney and cristiano ronaldo  are up to the task.  we have an opportunity to win this cup this year  no question about that   he declared.  with the maturity we see every week in ronaldo and rooney  the return of van nistelrooy and the form of roy keane  paul scholes and ryan giggs  we must have a fantastic chance.  it is a view shared by rooney  who believes  if we can get past milan  we have a great chance .  as soon as i knew we were playing milan  i got excited. looking at the draw  it is anyone s trophy but we have every chance.  hopefully  we can get to that final in turkey and bring the cup back to manchester.  milan coach carlo ancelotti said his team were looking forward to returning to the venue where they lifted europe s most prestigious club title two seasons ago. milan beat juventus in a penalty shootout after a 0-0 tie at old trafford and ancelotti said:  we are all very happy to return (to old trafford) to play in the champions league and this will give us great motivation.  ancelotti said he was aware of the threat united posed to his hopes of champions league glory.  it s fundamental that we don t allow them to take control of the game. our intention is not to adapt to their play but to play our game   he said.  they have great quality in attack  they use the wings a lot and we will have to make sure we stop them.
tech,how to make a gigapixel picture the largest digital panoramic photo in the world has been created by researchers in the netherlands.  the finished image is 2.5 billion pixels in size - making it about 500 times the resolution of images produced by good consumer digital cameras. the huge image of delft was created by stitching together 600 single snaps of the dutch city taken at a fixed spot. if printed out in standard 300 dots per inch resolution  the picture would be 2.5m high and 6m long.  the researchers have put the image on a website which lets viewers explore the wealth of detail that it captures. tools on the page let viewers zoom in on the city and its surroundings in great detail. the website is already proving popular and currently has more than 200 000 visitors every day.  the image was created by imaging experts from the dutch research and technology laboratory tno which created the 2.5 gigapixel photo as a summer time challenge.  the goal of the project was to be one of the first groups to make gigapixel images. the first image of such a size was manually constructed by us photographer max lyons in november 2003. that image portrayed bryce canyon national park  in utah  and was made up of 196 separate photographs. the panorama of delft is a little staid in contrast to the dramatic rockscape captured in mr lyons  image.  he did it all by hand  which was an enormous effort  and we got the idea that if you use automatic techniques  it would be feasible to build a larger image   said jurgen den hartog  one of the tno researchers behind the project.  we were not competing with mr lyons  but it started as a lunchtime bet.   the dutch team used already available technologies  although it had to upgrade them to be able to handle the high-resolution image.   we had to rewrite almost all the tools   me den hartog told the bbc news website.  all standard windows viewers available would not be able to load such a large image  so we had to develop one ourselves.  the 600 component pictures were taken on july 2004 by a computer-controlled camera with a 400 mm lens. each image was made to slightly overlap so they could be accurately arranged into a composite. the stitching process was also done automatically using five powerful pcs over three days. following the success of this project  and with promises of help from others  the tno team is considering creating a full 360-degree panoramic view of another dutch city  with even higher resolution.
entertainment,day-lewis set for berlin honour actor daniel day-lewis is to be presented with an award for his career in film at the berlin film festival.  the 47-year-old  whose credits include his oscar-winning performance in my left foot  will be presented with the berlinale camera award on 15 february. the honour  awarded since 1986  honours figures in cinema that the festival feels  particularly indebted to . man to man  a historical epic starring kristin scott thomas  opens the german festival on 10 february. a candid documentary about the life and career of singer george michael  a different story will also be screened at the 10-day event.    day-lewis has competed four times at the berlin film festival  with films in the name of the father (1994)  the crucible (1997)  the boxer (1998) and martin scorsese s gangs of new york (2003). the festival praises him for his  sensational start  with roles in my beautiful launderette and costume classic a room with a view  and a  great number of celebrated roles  in subsequent productions. japan s oldest film studio will also be honoured along with day-lewis. shochiku film studios  which was founded 110 years ago  will become the first cinematic institution to receive the berlinale camera award. famous japanese directors including akira hurosawa have had films produced at the studio.
business,alfa romeos  to get gm engines  fiat is to stop making six-cylinder petrol engines for its sporty alfa romeo subsidiary  unions at the italian carmaker have said.  the unions claim fiat is to close the fiat powertrain plant at arese near milan and instead source six-cylinder engines from general motors. fiat has yet to comment on the matter  but the unions say the new engines will be made by gm in australia. the news comes a week after gm pulled out of an agreement to buy fiat. gm had to pay former partner fiat 1.55bn euros ($2bn; £1.1bn) to get out of a deal which could have forced it to buy the italian carmaker outright. fiat and gm also ended their five-year alliance and two joint ventures in engines and purchasing  but did agree to continue buying each other s engines.   powertrain told us today that alfa romeo engines will no longer be made in arese   said union leader vincenzo lilliu  as reported by the reuters news agency.  the assembly line will be dismantled and the six-cylinder alfa romeo motor will be replaced with an engine gm produces in australia.  reuters also said that mr lilliu and other union bosses shouted insults at fiat chairman luca di montezemolo  following a meeting on tuesday regarding the future of the arese plant. the unions said the end of engine production at the facility would mean the loss of 800 jobs. all alfa romeo models can be bought with a six-cylinder engine - the 147  156  156 sportwagon  166  gtv  gt and spider.
politics,lib dems highlight problem debt people vulnerable to problem debts should be afforded greater protection from banks aggressively promoting financial products  the lib dems say.  vincent cable says one in eight households already struggle with debt and that will worsen if there is a hike in interest rates or unemployment. the lib dems  treasury spokesman is unveiling a policy aimed at the issue. he wants to see  proper health checks  when loans are marketed so people know to take out payment protection.   were economic conditions to deteriorate at all  large numbers of people could be affected because they have borrowed to the limit   mr cable told bbc news.  banks are very aggressively promoting debt in many cases there is a bigger problem ahead.  mr cable said the government s consumer credit bill would target some of the  extreme problems  such as loan sharking  but ministers had been  a bit complacent  about the wider issue of debt levels. he said much of the payment protection currently available was  extremely expensive  and there were  lots of exclusions .  mr cable added that the office of fair trading should investigate the market. lib dem leader charles kennedy meanwhile is in the middle of a tour of the uk aimed at persuading voters his is the  real opposition . mr kennedy is visiting a mixture of rural seats  where his party is hoping to make gains from the conservatives  and urban areas traditionally associated with labour. labour say a lib dem vote could  let the tories in   while the tories say the lib dems would mean  higher taxes  soft crime laws  more power to europe . mr kennedy s tour comes as he  labour leader tony blair and conservative leader michael howard all step up campaigning ahead of the next general election  widely expected to be held on 5 may.  the liberal democrats say in the northern cities  the race is between them and labour  while in southern seats - particularly the south west - it is between them and the tories. speaking to the bbc s westminster hour on sunday  mr kennedy said the upcoming general election - widely tipped for 5 may - would be much more unpredictable than any others in  recent experience . and he brushed off labour suggestions a vote for his party would mean letting the tories in  by the back door .  if you look at the four previous parliamentary by-elections  the liberal democrats have demonstrated that  not only can we leapfrog the conservatives where we start in a third place position  but we can go on to defeat the government.  that s going to be the story  i think  of this coming general election.
politics,blair to face trust issue head on tony blair says he will be facing the issue of trust and his own integrity head on during the election campaign.  during a question and answer session with first-time voters on five news  mr blair said he had no option but to  confront it  by talking to people. he also dismissed claims government plans to get 50% of young people into university would devalue degrees. he was not  forcing  anyone to go to university  but places should be there for those who wanted them  he said. in answer to a question from 22-year-old liverpool student david dunne about concerns over the prime minister s personal integrity  mr blair said talking was the only answer.  you ve just got to confront it and say to people let s have a discussion on the things that worry you  the things that make you say  i can t trust you  or  i am against you on this.   the  worst thing in politics  was that the electorate only got  little snatches of policy  from things like prime minister s questions and the news headlines. this was why he wanted to  get out of the 30 seconds on the news   he added.  by talking through policies at least people understood the reason for them  even if they did not agree with them  he said. mr blair also faced questions about british policy on iran and its alleged nuclear weapons programme. he insisted there was no plan for an invasion of the country saying:  sometimes people say because of what has happened in iraq this is the next place.  instead there was a real chance of a  peaceful resolution  to the problem  he said.
entertainment,public show for reynolds portrait sir joshua reynolds  portrait of omai will get a public airing following fears it would stay hidden because of an export wrangle.  the tate gallery unsuccessfully tried to buy the picture from its anonymous owner after a ban was issued preventing the painting from leaving the uk. the 18th century painting has remained in storage but the owner has agreed to allow it to be part of an exhibition. the exhibition of reynolds  work will be shown at tate britain from may. joshua reynolds: the creation of celebrity will feature prints  caricatures  and sculpture by the 18th century artist  who painted some of the most famous personalities of his day. portrait of omai fetched the second highest amount for a british painting when it was sold at auction for £10.3m in 2001. it was bought by a london dealer who sold it on to a collector. the unnamed collector wanted to take it out of the country  but was barred from doing so by the government because of its historical significance.  in march 2004  the tate managed to raise £12.5m funding to buy the portrait but the owner refused to sell and it has been held in storage since. the portrait is of a young man who was dubbed  the noble savage  when he arrived in london from polynesia. he became a darling of london society and was invited to all the best parties by people who were fascinated by such an exotic character. sir joshua painted him after his arrival in 1774  and it became the artist s most famous work after it was first exhibited at the royal academy in 1776.
sport,aragones angered by racism fine spain coach luis aragones is furious after being fined by the spanish football federation for his comments about thierry henry.  the 66-year-old criticised his 3000 euros (£2 060) punishment even though it was far below the maximum penalty.  i am not guilty  nor do i accept being judged for actions against the image of the sport   he said.  i m not a racist and i ve never lacked sporting decorum. i ve never done that and i have medals for sporting merit.  aragones was handed the fine on tuesday after making racist remarks about henry to arsenal team-mate and spanish international jose reyes last october.  the spanish football federation at first declined to take action against aragones  but was then requested to do so by spain s anti-violence commission. the fine was far less than the expected amount of about £22 000 or even the suspension of his coaching licence. arsenal boss arsene wenger  who was fined £15 000 in december for accusing manchester united striker ruud van nistelrooy of cheating  believes that aragones  punishment was too lenient.  you compare his fine and my fine  and if you consider his was for racist abuse  then you seem to get away with it more in spain than you should   wenger said.  he shouldn t have said what he said  and how much money is enough  i don t know but it doesn t look a big punishment.  however  aragones insists the fine is unjustified and unfair.  i have been treated like islero (the bull that killed famous bullfighter manolete)   said aragones on hearing he had been fined for his actions.  i have not liked one thing about this whole affair and i do not agree with the sanction. they have looked for a scapegoat.  spain s anti-violence commission must now ratify the spanish fa s decision and has until next week to announce its verdict. aragones has 10 days to appeal  and the commission can also appeal. alberto flores  president of the spanish fa s disciplinary committee  said no-one in the committee felt aragones was a racist nor had  acted in a racist way.   a fine  the highest we could apply  is sufficient punishment. suspension would have been a bit exaggerated   flores told sports daily marca.
entertainment,lost doors frontman movie found historians in florida have discovered a 40-year-old clip of a clean-cut jim morrison appearing in a promotional film for his university.  the 1964 film shows the doors frontman  who died aged 27 in 1971  playing the part of a young man who had been rejected by florida state university. morrison is seen quizzing a college administrator on why he was refused.  but what happened  how come my parents and the state and the university didn t look ahead   he is seen asking.   it s incredible. he s so clean cut and soft-spoken   said florida state archivist jody norman.  we know he was at florida state university for a period of time and he did some acting when he was there   norman added. the doors were one of the most influential bands of the 1960s  with hits including light my fire and riders on the storm. morrison was notorious for his wild lifestyle - and was accused of exposing himself and simulating a sex act at a miami concert in 1969. he was found dead in the bath of his paris apartment and died from heart problems  aggravated by alcohol. a coroner recorded a verdict of death by natural causes and his grave at the city s pere lachaise ceremony has become a shrine for fans.
politics,straw attacked on china arms moves to lift the european union s ban on arms exports to china have been condemned by human rights groups and the conservatives.  the 15 year embargo was imposed in the aftermath of china s crackdown on protesters in tiananmen square in 1989. uk foreign secretary jack straw  who will hold talks in beijing on thursday  said an eu arms code was more effective than the current ban. but human rights watch says the eu is putting commerce above abuse concerns.  in december  the eu pledged to work towards lifting the ban but said it was not ready to do so yet. germany and france have repeatedly called for the embargo to be lifted. britain has been more cautious but mr straw last week said he also wanted it to end  despite us objections.  he expects it to be lifted over the next six months  a prediction which has alarmed critics. brad adams  from human rights watch  said:  this is a huge political signal from europe that they are willing to forget about tiananmen square.  there are still thousands of people who are unaccounted for.   mr straw said it was wrong to put china under the same embargo as countries such as zimbabwe and burma. the scope of the embargo was very narrow and did not have any force of law behind it  he told bbc radio 4 s world at one. in the uk  more export licences were refused under the existing european union arms code than under the embargo  he said. and only two of the licences denied under the embargo would have been granted under the code.  the code of conduct is much more effective  it s a more powerful tool of and we intend to strengthen it as a pre-condition of lifting the embargo with china   he said.  mr straw denied the decision would suggest to china that tiananmen square had been forgotten. the level of human rights was a key criteria under the eu arms exports code  he said. human rights groups say the code of conduct is not legally binding - but mr straw said it would be given legal force by the laws of many eu countries. conservative shadow foreign secretary michael ancram said the move would be  profoundly wrong . the decision could undermine nato as it severely damaged relations with the us  which is opposed to ending the ban.  mr ancram argued:  what the british government is doing is giving in to french and german pressure  especially the french  who see vast contracts available to them if the embargo is lifted...  it gives the wrong signals to china  who are simply not prepared to accept that what happened at tiananmen square was wrong.  mr straw s china trip is part of regular high-level meetings with beijing ministers. he will meet chinese counterpart minister li zhaoxing to discuss developing relations between their two countries  hong kong and china s part in the talks on north korea.
sport,chepkemei joins edinburgh line-up susan chepkemei has decided she is fit enough to run in next month s great edinburgh international cross country.  the kenyan was initially unsure if she would have recovered from her gruelling tussle with paula radcliffe in the new york marathon in time to compete. but she has declared herself up to the task and joins a field headed by world cross country champion benita johnson. race director matthew turnbull said:  susan will add even more strength in depth to the world-class line up.  chepkemei  who won the six kilometre event three years ago when it was staged in newcastle  endured an epic battle with radcliffe in the big apple until the briton outsprinted her in the final 400m. tirunesh dibaba of ethiopia will defend the title she won last year in tyneside - before the race was moved north of the border. recently-crowned european cross country champion briton hayley yelling also competes in edinburgh on 15 january  as does in-form scot kathy butler.
entertainment,douglas set for indian adventure actor michael douglas is to co-produce and star in an adventure film about a diamond robbery set in india.  the new picture is expected to be similar to douglas s action films of the 1980s  romancing the stone and the jewel of the nile. another hollywood star is being lined up to co-star  while the rest of the cast will be indian. aishwarya rai  star of bride and prejudice  is the  preferred choice  of the indian studio involved in the film.  on a visit to india  the 60-year-old actor said he hoped to start shooting racing the monsoon next year. douglas added that it had been inspired by a wall street journal article about india s  angadias   who courier money and diamonds around india.  the actor s own production company  further films  is working in partnership with two indian film-making concerns to bring the picture to the screen. shailendra singh  the founder of india s percept films  said there would be  a lot of india  in the movie - and that an indian train would play a big role.  the train will be a crucial part of the film. the chase and most of the stunts will be on the train   said mr singh. swashbuckling adventure film romancing the stone saw douglas s female co-star kathleen turner win a golden globe award for her performance in 1985.
sport,ireland v usa (sat) saturday 20 november  lansdowne road  dublin  1300 gmt  the irish coach knows a repeat of the record 83-3 victory over the states in 2000 is not on the agenda and expects a real test at lansdowne road.  their coach tom billups will have them very organised   said o sullivan.  they ran five tries past the french in the summer  so we will not take them for granted. we have guys coming into the team who are chomping at the bit.  the irish line-up shows nine changes from the team which started against south africa with winger tommy bowe and flanker denis leamy making their international debuts. the other changes see recalls for backs david humphreys  kevin maggs and guy easterby with eric miller  marcus horan  donnacha o callaghan and frank sheehan all returning to the pack.  o sullivan said the players coming in had the opportunity to stake claims for inclusion against argentina on 27 november. easterby gets a rare start at scrum-half while humphreys  now effectively ronan o gara s deputy at fly-half  wins his 65th cap.  we have got to get the focus right on the day   said ulster man humphreys.  the us may be classed as weaker opposition  but we will treat them with the respect they deserve.  the states lost 39-31 against france in their last international and are ranked 16th in world rugby. the americans have made three changes  plus one positional switch from the game in july against the french. lock alec parker  blind-side flanker brian surgener and right wing al lakomskis return and captain kort schubert of the cardiff blues shifts to number eight. schubert is the only eagles player remaining from the sides  meeting four years ago.  g murphy; s horgan  b o driscoll (capt)  k maggs  t bowe; d humphreys  g easterby; m horan. f sheahan  j hayes  d o callaghan  p o connell  s easterby  d leamy  e miller.  s byrne  s best  l cullen  a foley  p stringer  r o gara  g dempsey.  viljoen; lakomskis  emerick  sika  fee  hercus  timoteo; macdonald  wyatt  waasdorp  parker  klerck  surgener  petruzzella  schubert (capt).  hobson  osentowski  gouws  mo unga  williams  sherman  tuipulotu.
sport,navratilova hits out at critics martina navratilova has defended her decision to prolong her tennis career at the age of 48.  navratilova  who made a comeback after retiring in 1994  will play doubles and mixed doubles events in 2005.  women s tennis is really strong   she said  dismissing suggestions that the fact she could still win reflected badly on the women s game.  all i can say is i m that damn good. i m sorry but i really have to blow my own horn here. i m still that good.  navratilova has won three grand slam mixed doubles titles since she came out of retirement. and she was so encouraged by her form that she decided to resume playing singles  winning two of her seven matches. she was knocked out in the first round of the french open but reached the second round at wimbledon. navratilova will partner nathalie dechy in the doubles event at the uncle toby s hardcourts tournament on australia s gold coast  which begins on sunday. she will then link up with daniela hantuchova for the australian open doubles  and play in the mixed doubles with leander paes.  i might be playing some singles events this season  depending on the surface   she added.
entertainment,actor scott is new bond favourite bookmaker william hill has stopped taking bets on who will be the next james bond  following a succession of large wagers on actor dougray scott.  the firm closed the book on friday  saying  insider information  could have contributed to the number of bets.  in the past gambles like this have often been right   william hill spokesman rupert adams said. the closing list gave scott odds of 6-9  followed by oscar nominee clive owen at 5-2. scott first found fame in the tv series soldier soldier and has since then starred in such films as mission impossible ii and the wartime drama enigma.  mr adams said one punter had placed a bet of £870 on the 39-year-old actor at odds of 8-1.  she told us she had some inside information  perhaps she knew he had been to a casting  but she wouldn t say   he said. others thought to be in the running include star wars actor ewan mcgregor and australian star hugh jackman  both of whom have odds of 4-1. colin farrell  jude law and troy star eric bana have also been tipped for the role in the past.  a large number of bets on actor colin salmon to become the first black james bond were dismissed as a publicity stunt a month ago. the next bond film  originally due for release in 2005  has been delayed until 2006 due to sony s takeover of the mgm studio. the most recent  die another day  was released in late 2002 and saw pierce brosnan make his final appearance as the secret agent. the actor was originally due to make a fifth appearance as bond  but was released from his contract in 2004.
sport,hewitt falls to dent in adelaide lleyton hewitt suffered a shock defeat to taylor dent in the quarter-finals of the australian hardcourt championships in adelaide on friday.  the top seed was a strong favourite for the title but went down 7-6 (7-4) 6-3 to the american. dent will face juan ignacio chela next after the fourth seed was too strong for jurgen melzer. olivier rochus beat third seed nicolas kiefer 6-7 (4-7) 7-6 (8-6) 7-5 and will take on second seed joachim johansson. the swede reached the last four by beating compatriot thomas enqvist 6-3 4-6 6-1.  i felt like i was striking the ball much better   said johansson.   i felt like i had a lot of break chances  i didn t take care of them all  but i broke him four times and he only broke me once.  i felt that was the key to get up in the set early.  hewitt played down his defeat and insisted he is focused solely on the australian open  which starts on 17 january.  when you ve been number one in the world for a couple of years and won a couple of slams  you look at the big picture and what motivates you   said hewitt.  that s the grand slams and melbourne s as big for me as any of the four. even if i don t win sydney next week it s no big deal.
politics,new rules tackle  sham weddings  new rules on marriage for foreign nationals living in the uk are coming into force.  from tuesday  most non-eu citizens will need home office approval to marry. the home office says the new rules are aimed at reducing the number of sham marriages  of which there are estimated to be up to 15 000 a year. but immigrants  group the joint council for the welfare of immigrants (jcwi) says the rules breach human rights law and it may mount a legal challenge. when the changes were unveiled last year  immigration minister des browne said:  our aim is to avoid unnecessary disruption of genuine marriages  while providing firm controls to prevent abuse.  under the previous regulations anybody wishing to get married in the uk only had to produce evidence they had been resident in the country for a week and give 15 days notice of the wedding at the local register office.  but from tuesday all non-eu nationals  apart from citizens of switzerland  liechtenstein  iceland or norway  intending to wed in the uk must either obtain a visa allowing them to get married before they enter the country or apply for a home office  certificate of marriage approval . to get a certificate  costing £135  applicants will have to send proof that they have a legal right to be in the uk. those without a settled status  such as asylum seekers awaiting a decision on their application  will have no right to marry in the uk.  once they have the necessary documentation  those subject to immigration controls wishing to get married in england or wales must register their intention to marry at one of 76 specially-designated register offices. they can  however  marry at the register office or church of their choice. rhian beynon of the jcwi said the new rules were  not proportionate  and  discriminatory .   these rules means in some cases the home secretary is going to be a marriage registrar of last resort.  we re currently taking a legal opinion on this. we ll be looking for people whose right to marry is breached and we ll be looking at taking a case on this to the human rights court   ms beynon said. the new rules have also been called into question by the parliamentary joint committee on human rights. in a report published last july the cross-party committee stated there was a  significant risk  the new procedures were incompatible with the right to marry because they introduced restrictions which were  disproportionate . the committee believed the new laws might be incompatible with the human rights act on the grounds of religion  belief and nationality  the report added.  over the last year immigration service operations against marriages of convenience have been stepped up resulting in a growing number of convictions. in january 25 people who took part in a sham marriage network based in leicester were jailed for a total of 35 years. and last november samuel amoah  a belgian national who set up two sham weddings for couples who wanted to remain in the uk  was jailed for three years. several other cases are currently going through the courts. the role of registrars who under the asylum and immigration act 1999 were obliged to report suspected sham marriages to the home office  has been key in many prosecutions. registrars  spokesman  mark rimmer  said they welcomed the new marriage regulations and believed they would be an significant deterrent.  they will effectively remove most of the blatant cases. certainly those who are illegals in this country  of which we had quite a few  will no longer be getting married   mr rimmer said. mr rimmer  the service director for registrations of marriages at brent council in north-west london  said he did not consider the new law to be an infringement of civil liberties.  it may be seen to be far more draconian than it has been but certainly it s still not as difficult to marry in the uk than it is to marry  for example  in holland  germany or france.  i think it s a proportionate response by government to what was a very large problem   mr rimmer said.
politics,mps assess scots fishing industry a group of mps are on a two-day fact-finding mission to scotland to gather evidence for a report into the uk s fishing industry.  members of westminster s environment  food and rural affairs committee will be touring fish markets and talking to fish processors. they will also talk to fisheries minister ross finnie and scientists. mps are deciding whether to recommend a new system of  community quotas  to conserve fish stocks. the aim is that fishing ports like peterhead or fraserburgh would be allocated a quota and local people would decide how to fish it. the scheme is a variation on the local management committees already being established by the european union.  details are contained in a royal commission report for the uk government  along with the more controversial idea of closing some mixed fishing grounds completely. six members of the committee will be in scotland to seek views from fishermen and processors in aberdeen and peterhead. they will also speak to mr finnie  representatives of the royal society and the sea fish industry authority. committee chairman austin mitchell said some way has to be found of harvesting mixed fisheries without wasting stocks.
entertainment,ray dvd beats box office takings oscar-nominated film biopic ray has surpassed its us box office takings with a combined tally of $80m (£43m) from dvd and video sales and rentals.  ray s success on dvd outstripped its $74m (£40m) us box office total  earning more than $40m (£22m) on the first day of the dvd s release alone. ray has been nominated in six oscar categories including best film and best actor for jamie foxx. the film recounts the life of blues singer ray charles  who died in 2004. in its first week on home entertainment release the film was the number one selling dvd  with the limited edition version coming in at number 11. sony horror film the grudge  starring michelle gellar  was the us  second best-selling dvd  with jennifer lopez and richard gere s romantic comedy shall we dance  at number three. foxx s critically acclaimed performance as ray has already earned him a screen actors guild award for best actor  as well as a prestigious golden globe. ray director taylor hackford  responsible for the classic 1982 film an officer and a gentleman  has also received an oscar nomination in the best director category. the film s three other oscar nominations are for costume  film editing and sound mixing.
tech,world tour for top video gamers two uk gamers are about to embark on a world tour as part of the most lucrative-ever global games tournament.  aaron foster and david treacy have won the right to take part in a tournament offering $1m in total prize money. the cash will be handed out over 10 separate competitions in a continent-hopping contest organised by the cyberathlete professional league. as part of their prize the pair will have their travel costs paid to ensure they can get to the different bouts.  the cpl world tour kicks off in mid-february and the first leg will be in istanbul. all ten bouts of the tournament will be played throughout 2005  each one in a different country. at each stop $50 000 in prize money will be up for grabs. the tournament champion for each leg of the cpl world tour will walk away with a $15 000 prize. the winner of the grand final will get a prize purse of $150 000 from a total pot of $500 000.  winners of each stage of the tour automatically get a place at the next stop. the world tour stops are open to any keen gamer that registers. online registration for the first stop opens this weekend. some pro-players are winning a spot at the tour destinations through qualifying events organised by cpl partners. winners at these qualifiers get seeded higher in the elimination parts of each tournament. mr foster and mr treacy get the chance to attend the world tour as members of the uk s four-kings gaming clan. towards the end of 2004 four-kings staged a series of online painkiller competitions to reveal the uk s top players of the pc game. the best eight players met face-to-face in a special elimination event in late december where mr foster and mr tracey proved their prowess at painkiller. as part of their prize the pair also get a contract with four-kings intel which is one of the uk s few pro-gaming teams.  there are a lot of people who take gaming very seriously and support their local or national team with the same passion as any other sport   said simon bysshe who filmed the event for four-kings and intel. more than 80 000 people have downloaded the movie of the tournament highlights.  professional gaming is here to stay and will only grow in popularity   he said.
sport,gardener battles to narrow win jason gardener fought all the way to the line to narrowly claim the men s 60m title at the norwich union indoor trials and aaas championships.  the world 60m champion got off to a rolling start and had to dig deep to dip ahead of mark findlay and darren chin  who both set personal bests.  it was a close race   admitted gardener.  i stumbled out the blocks but my experience told through.  i still feel there s more life in me and i believe i can go faster.  gardener s performance in sheffield could have been affected by the news  which he heard before his semi-final  that his european record had been broken frenchman ronald pognon  who will be a real threat at the european championships  set a new time of 6.45  one-hundreth of a second faster than gardener s previous mark. favourite  delivered a powerful performance to take the women s 60m title in 7.27 seconds.  you ll see me in madrid and i feel there is a lot more to come along   said the 22-year-old. katherine endacott battled hard to take second and dip under the european qualifying mark. defending champion joice maduaka had pulled out of the final with a chest infection.  was on record-breaking form as she stormed to the women s 60m hurdles crown. the 25-year-old set a new british record for the second time in seven days  clocking 7.96 seconds to finish ahead of rival diane allahgreen.  i m so happy   a tearful claxton told bbc sport.  all the years i ve been running and i m getting recognition.  claxton s time was also good enough to qualify for the european championships.  the men s 800m went to form in sheffield as  dominated the race from start to finish. the northern ireland athlete went off at a startling pace but had to hold off the challenge of welshman jimmy watkins over the final 200m to win in one minute  47.96 seconds. both mcilory and watkins  who set a life-time best of 1:48.32  had already booked their places in madrid and were again well within the qualifying time.  i had to go out and go through all the gears before the europeans and i won t run again until then   said mcilroy.  could not reach the european mark in the women s race as she crossed the line to win in 2:04.45. olympic bronze heptathlon medallist  rounded off a useful weekend with two more personal bests in sheffield. the 28-year-old reached 1.80m in the high jump and clocked 8.47secs in the heats of the 60m hurdles.  i ve surprised myself   said sotherton.  i m starting to thrive on the pressure but if i don t perform then it s not the end of the world.  pole vaulter  made a winning return to major competition after a drugs ban. the trafford athlete  who has served a two-year ban after testing positive for anabolic steroids  clinched the title with a championship record 4.25m.  also set a new championship mark in the men s triple jump title in sheffield. the 26-year-old  who has been training in australia over the winter  landed 17.30m with his final effort - the longest leap in the world this year.  i didn t have a clue   said idowu.  i ve not jumped indoors before and i just wanted the qualifying mark.  but this isn t a bad start and hopefully i ll come back from madrid with a gold medal.  nathan douglas continued his steady progress this season as he set a life-time best of 16.76m in second while jonathan moore took third.  and  resumed their rivalry in the long jump competition  both achieving the european standard. commonwealth champion morgan reached a personal best of 7.96m on his very first jump and then promptly retired with a bruised heel. olympian tomlinson tried to play catch up with his six jumps but had to settle for a season s best jump of 7.91m.  i was advised not to jump by my doctor and so i m pleased to come here and get the qualifying mark   said tomlinson.    now based at loughborough  sprinted past front runner catherine murphy in the final 100m to steal the women s 400m title. the 21-year-old ran a personal best of 53.45 seconds to win her first indoor title. wall s time was just short of the qualifying mark - something murphy already has. ireland s  took the men s title in 46.46 ahead of promising channel islands decathlete dale garland. sudanese 18-year-old rabah yusuf  who is seeking british citizenship  showed his raw talent as he burst through in third.  cleared the required 1.90m to qualify for the european championships and claim the aaas title in the women s high jump. in the men s 3 000m   powered to a new personal best of seven minutes  56.86 seconds to defend his aaas title in style. it was the first time in 11 years the eight-minute barrier has been broken at the championships and was just within the european mark.  took the women s 1500m aaas title in the absence of kelly holmes. her time of 4:19.11 was not good enough to qualify for madrid but ovens had already opted out of the championships. the men s race was won by    who had to fight off a closing pack to claim the title in 3:45.87.
politics,no-one can define new hunt ban  the new law banning hunting with dogs is  so poorly drafted  no-one can define the offence  pro-hunt mps say.  the accusation came after it emerged a devon man had been told he could use his four dogs to  chase away unwanted animals  from his farm. because he did not intend to kill deer or foxes it was not hunting. lib dem mp lembit opik said ministers had invented a new category of hunting - chasing away - and asked how police were supposed to interpret the rules.  north devon landowner giles bradshaw was put in touch with the middle way group  of which mr opik is a co-chairman  after he had been in contact with the rural affairs ministry  defra. he had asked whether his technique of using his four dogs to frighten off deer and foxes would be outlawed under the hunting act. mr bradshaw was initially told it was an offence - prompting him to complain. the middle way group also said mr bradshaw would be put in a position where he would have to buy a rifle to shoot animals that would have previously gone free. in a later conversation mr bradshaw was told that according to defra s lawyers chasing away unwanted animals was  not in fact hunting as described in the hunting act 2004 therefore you would not be committing an offence .  mr opik said:  hunting with dogs and flushing are not defined in the hunting act.  now defra have also invented a completely new category of hunting -  chasing away  which isn t even covered by the act.  however  all these activities involve the use of dogs to chase wild mammals.  how is the village bobby who sees a group of people with dogs supposed to distinguish between illegal hunting  exempt hunting  drag hunting  unintentional hunting  a hunt exercising hounds or simply chasing away   tory mp peter luff  another co-chairman of middle way  said that the legislation was  so poorly drafted nobody appears able to properly define the offence .   it is no wonder the government desperately wants to move on from this disastrous law. however  i seriously doubt the countryside will be that accommodating.  mike hobday  of the league against cruel sports  said:  there is no confusion  it is a matter of simple common sense.  if mr bradshaw is setting his dogs to chase wild animals then he is hunting them and that will be a criminal offence.  if all the dogs are doing is barking at the deer  then nobody can define that as hunting.
business,eu-us seeking deal on air dispute the eu and us have agreed to begin talks on ending subsidies given to aircraft makers  eu trade commissioner peter mandelson has announced.  both sides hope to reach a negotiated deal over state aid received by european aircraft maker airbus and its us rival boeing  mr mandelson said. airbus and boeing accuse each other of benefiting from illegal subsidies. mr mandelson said the eu and us hoped to avoid having to resolve the dispute at the world trade organisation (wto).   with this agreement the eu and us have confirmed their willingness to resolve the dispute which has arisen between them   mr mandelson said.  i hope our negotiations in the next three months will lead to an agreement ending subsidies to development and production of large civil aircraft.  last year  the us terminated an agreement with the eu  reached in 1992  which limits the subsidies countries can hand over to civil aircraft makers. the us filed a complaint against brussels with the wto over state aid to airbus  prompting a retaliatory eu complaint over us support for boeing. however  both sides agreed to suspend their requests for wto arbitration at the beginning of december  to allow bilateral talks to continue. eads and bae systems  the european defence and aerospace firms which own airbus  welcomed mr mandelson s announcement.  it has always been preferable that any differences between the us and europe on this matter be overcome through constructive discussion rather than through legal recourse   the companies said in a joint statement.  separately  the world s largest package delivery company  ups  said it had placed an order for 10 airbus a380 superjumbo freight-carrying jets  with an option to buy 10 more of the triple-decker aircraft. the us company said it needed to expand its air freight capacity following strong international growth  and would begin receiving deliveries of the a380s from 2009. however  ups said it was cutting a previous order for smaller airbus a300s from 90 planes to 53. so far  airbus has delivered 40 a300s to ups. airbus overtook boeing as the world s largest manufacturer of commercial airliners in 2003.
entertainment,fox  too reliant on reality tv  the head of us tv network fox has admitted the broadcaster had relied too heavily on reality tv shows such as the poor-rating who s your daddy.  chief executive gail berman said  in the case of this fall we drifted to too much on the unscripted side . the series who s your daddy  where a young woman tries to pick her natural father for a cash prize caused outrage from adoption groups and rated badly. last season  fox s prime-time audience fell by 600 000 to 5.9 million. ms berman said:  i think the audience expects loud things from fox. sometimes they work  and sometimes they don t.   who s your daddy  the first episode of which was shown on 3 january  pulled in a disappointing audience of 6.3 million  according to the nielsen ratings system. five other episodes of the show had also been filmed will be dropped from fox s schedules  ms berman said. she was predicting a drop in ratings even for some of the network s established reality shows  such as american idol  which is due to start its fourth series this week. fox had unveiled a new strategy last year promising to launch new shows every season  including the traditionally quiet summer season. though that had met with a poor reception  ms berman said  there s no question that the audience  in our mind  is ready  willing and able to accept new programming in the summer . fox has changed this plan  launching new shows in may instead of june. one of the new shows will be the animated series american dad  made by seth macfarlane  the creator of family guy. that series  after becoming a hit on dvd  is also set to return with new episodes.
tech,learning to love broadband we are reaching the point where broadband is a central part of daily life  at least for some  argues technology analyst bill thompson.  one of the nice things about being a writer is that i rarely have to go to an office to work. i can sit in a caf&#233; or a library  with or without a wi-fi connection  and research and write articles. if i am passing through kings cross station on my way to a meeting then i can log on from the platform. and i can spend the day working with my girlfriend anne  a children s writer  at her house in cambridge  sharing her wireless network. but just over a week ago i arrived at her house to find that there was no network connection.  we checked the cable modem and noticed that it had no power  and when she changed the power lead it sparked at her in a way which made it abundantly clear that it was never going to talk to the internet again. she called her service provider  and they told her it would be five days before an engineer would show up with a new cable modem. this did not seem too bad  but in fact she really suffered until her connection was restored on wednesday. with no modem installed in her computer  she had to borrow internet access from friends or use the dial-up connection on her daughter s laptop  so she had to choose between copying her files onto her usb memory card or accepting a slower and flakier net connection. as a result she did not submit the pictures she wanted to use for a book on earthquakes because they were too big to send over dial-up.  she could not research other material because she is used to having easy access to a fast link that lets her search quickly and effectively. but the impact spread into her personal life too. she did not take her children to the cinema during half-term because she could not find out which films were showing at the local cinemas. she planned a trip to norfolk but did not check the weather because the only place she knows to look for weather information is the bbc website. and she did not know where to go fossil-hunting on the trip because she could not type  fossils norfolk  into google. of course  she readily admits  she could have answered these questions if she had looked in the local paper  listened to the radio or found a book on fossils. but she did not  because having fast  always on  and easy access to the net has become part of the routine of her daily life  and when it was taken away it was too much effort to go back to the old ways of doing things. she may be unusual  but i do not think anne is alone.  according to ofcom there were almost four million broadband users in the uk in april 2004  and numbers are climbing fast. there will certainly be five million by the end of the year. dial-up users are switching to broadband. my dad finally made the change earlier this month and new net users are selecting broadband from the start. more and more of these broadband users are beginning to mould their daily lives around the availability of broadband internet connections  and they too will find it difficult to cope if they cannot get online for any reason.  it is part of the process of adaptation  and it is a vital step in the growth of broadband in the uk and elsewhere. people who have integrated net access into their daily lives tell their friends about it  and show off the cool stuff they can do. they encourage other people to get broadband so that they can share digital photos and do all of the other things that need fast and reliable connectivity. of course  broadband in the uk is laughably slow compared to other parts of the world. in south korea  japan and hong kong normal connection speeds are measured in megabits  or millions of bits  a second rather than the thousands that we are supposed to be happy with. but speed is only a small part of the attraction of broadband  and when it comes to checking websites for film times  looking at weather forecasts  or all of the other small things that make a real difference to the routines and habits of our daily lives  even uk speeds are sufficient. it may not be the brave new world of streaming full-screen video and superfast file downloads  but it will do for now. and it is certainly better than slow access or no access. just ask anne.  bill thompson is a regular commentator on the bbc world service programme go digital.
sport,all black magic: new zealand rugby playing colours:  all black  the haka and more!  the all blacks  charles john munro discovered rugby at london s christ college  and on his return to nelson he staged new zealand s first game. nelson town met nelson college on 14 may  1870  the town triumphing by two goals to nil  instigating a game that would become a national obsession and come to dominate the country s sporting passions. the game appealed to the kiwi psyche and quickly spread  the native maoris finding a particular empathy with the sport s warrior ethos. in 1888 a british team led by ae stoddart toured new zealand and australia  and soon after a maori named joe warbrick and an english ex-pat called thomas eyton decided to gather a combined new zealand team.  twenty-two maori and four  pakiha  formed the  new zealand native team   who played a total of 107 matches in new zealand  australia and the uk. the integration of white and maori was a reflecion of enlightened new zealand rugby and society  even if the british press were somewhat mystified by the pre-match tradition of the maori war dance  the haka! the other great symbol of new zealand rugby  the all black kit with the silver fern on the breast  was proposed by tom ellison at the first annual meeting of the new zealand rugby football union in 1893. new zealand played their first international against australia in 1903  the kiwis triumphing 22-3 in sydney  and the following year an official british touring team came to new zealand for the first time. the tourists had gone through australia undefeated but their captain  david revell bedell-sivright  created animosity in new zealand with his patronising attitude. the kiwis shocked the rugby world with a 9-3 triumph in wellington  sparking great celebrations across the country  but bedell-sivright churlishly suggested that the victors would have no chance when they visited the uk.  their opportunity to prove him wrong came in 1905 with the first official new zealand tour to europe. the tourists won their early games with a quick-thinking  inventive approach  but press criticism began to grow over their 2-3-2 scrum formation that left a  roving  forward free to disrupt opposition attacks. the tactic was effective  two late tries seeing the kiwis to a 12-7 win over scotland  before ireland were despatched 15-0 in dublin. a huge crowd at crystal palace convulsed with laughter at the sight of the haka - but the smiles were soon wiped from their faces when the tourists ran in five tries in a 15-0 hammering of england. new zealand headed to wales to meet a country in the midst of its first  golden age   and the encounter would be the first in a series of controversial clashes between the sides. an excellent try on the left wing by teddy morgan sealed a 3-0 win in a hard-fought encounter at cardiff arms park  but post-match talk was dominated by a bob deans try that was ruled out by scottish referee john dallas. dallas said that deans was tackled short  but the kiwi said he was dragged back into the field of play after grounding a try - on his death-bed three years later he exclaimed:  i did score that try in cardiff.   four of the 1905 all blacks went over to the newly formed  all golds  rugby league side soon after the tour  but new zealand were strong enough to crush an anglo-welsh touring team in 1908. the first south africa tour of new zealand in 1921 saw honours shared in a three-test series  starting the greatest rivalry in rugby - and the long-running controversy between the countries over the all blacks  inclusion of maori players. the awesome 1924-5 all black tourists became known as  the invincibles  after winning all 30 of their games in france  britain and ireland  including a crushing 19-0 victory over wales at st helen s. despite their success  the all blacks  2-3-2 scrum formation left them somewhat short of possession at times  and the flaws were exploited by the springboks in south africa in 1928. employing the modern 3-4-1 scrum line-up against the new zealand  rover  system for the first time  south african teams defeated the all blacks in five games and the test series was drawn two-all. the controversial new zealand scrum method finally disappeared after the 1930 lions tour (a series won 3-1 by new zealand)  the lions manager describing the tactic as  cheating   prompting the international rugby board to rule that three men had to pack down in the front row of the scrum.  the all blacks  1935 european tour started inauspiciously with an 11-3 loss to a swansea side inspired by teenage  schoolboy half-backs hayden tanner and willie davies. a thrilling test at cardiff arms park went to wales 13-12  although the winning try from geoffrey rees-jones was controversial following an illegal claude davey tackle in the build-up. new zealand s next visit to wales in 1953 proved difficult as they lost 8-3 to cardiff and drew 6-6 at swansea. the all blacks were on top in the test with wales at the arms park  but the teams were locked at 8-8 when a clem thomas cross kick was gathered by ken jones for a famous  match-winning try. the tourists made some amends with wins over the other home nations  before a 19-5 success over the barbarians in an arms park thriller. new zealand built from that tour  and by the time they returned in 1963-4 they were undoubtedly the leading side in the world.  that made the shock all the greater when a drop goal by student john uzzell gave newport an unlikely 3-0 win over the tourists at rodney parade. wilson whinneray s side rallied to beat wales 6-0  their first win at the arms park in four attempts  and went unbeaten through the rest of the tour  but when they returned home the first question put to them was:  what happened in newport   the only blemish on the record of the awesome 1967 tourists was a draw with east wales  as they beat the full wales team 13-6 in cardiff to take the lead in the series between the countries for the first time. that lead was increased with two comfortable wins for the home side in new zealand in 1969  the first time wales had toured the country as an independent team.  a ferocious game at the arms park in 1972 was edged 19-16 by the all blacks  a measure of revenge for the defeat inflicted on new zealand by the carwyn james-inspired lions of 1971.  james guided llanelli to a famous 9-3 win over the tourists at stradey park  though  and in the final game of the tour the barbarians defeated the all blacks 23-11 in cardiff in a game regarded by many as the greatest ever played. new zealand defeated a wales xv 12-3 at the arms park in a non-cap game in 1974  but it was the 1978 game in cardiff that would reignite the history of controversy between the two countries.  wales were leading 12-10 with one minute left when andy haden flew to the floor from a line-out. television pictures clearly showed that he dived  but english referee roger quittenton was fooled and awarded a penalty  duly converted by brian mckechnie for a 13-12 win. since that infamous game  the competition has largely left wales v new zealand fixtures as the men in red have slipped from the pinnacle of the world game. a crushing 23-3 win for new zealand in cardiff in the welsh rugby union s 1980 centenary game was a sign of things to come. the new professionalism in the southern hemisphere game that had left europe behind was shown as the all blacks swatted wales aside 49-6 in brisbane in the semi-final of the inaugural world cup. the kiwis went on to claim the cup  and would inflict further misery on wales on their ill-fated 1988 tour of new zealand.  a young  talented wales side left britain full of confidence as triple crown winners  but one of the greatest ever new zealand teams demolished them 52-3 and 54-9. after also taking some fearful beatings in the provincial games  wales captain jonathan davies returned home calling for urgent change in the national game  but as his views were ignored he - along with a generation of wales  best players - chose to head north to rugby league.  a 34-9 win in cardiff followed for new zealand in 1989  and at the 1995 world cup wales  big talk was made to look embarrassing as the all blacks eased to victory in johannesburg. a crushing 42-7 kiwi triumph in wembley followed in 1997  and as wales  misery increased they turned to new zealand for their salvation in the shape of coaches graham henry and steve hansen. there was a temporary resurgence in the welsh game  but when an experimental new zealand side came to cardiff s new millennium stadium in 2002 they left with a 43-17 victory.  a bruising 55-3 defeat followed for wales in hamilton in 2003 as hansen built towards the world cup  but in australia it was a remarkable performance against the all blacks that gave his side renewed hope. wales were given no chance going into the game  but in the course of the match they rediscovered the value of attacking flair to lead 37-33 early in the second half. new zealand rallied to a 53-37 win  but the style shown by wales has been used as an inspiration as they look to a better future. they now face an all blacks team led by henry and hansen  coming to europe with a weakened squad at the end of a long season. an encouraging display against south africa has inspired a confident wales camp to believe they can claim their first win over the men in black for over 50 years. they have a chance  but clearly history is not on their side.
tech,tv s future down the phone line internet tv has been talked about since the start of the web as we know it now.  but any early attempts to do it - the uk s home choice started in 1992 - were thwarted by the lack of a fast network. now that broadband networks are bedding down  and it is becoming essential for millions  the big telcos are keen to start shooting video down the line. in the face of competition from cable companies offering net voice calls  they are keen to be the top iptv dogs. software giant microsoft thinks iptv - internet protocol tv - is the future of television  and it sits neatly with its vision of the  connected entertainment experience .  telcos have been wanting to do video for a long time   ed graczyk  director of marketing for microsoft iptv  told the bbc news website.  the challenge has been the broadband network  and the state of technology up until not so long ago did not add up to a feasible solution.  compression technology was not efficient enough  the net was not good enough. a lot of stars have aligned in the last 18 months to make it a reality.   last year  he said  was all about deal making and partnering up; shaping the  iptv ecosystem . this year  those deals will start to play out and more services will come online.  2006 is where it starts ramping up and expanding to other geographies - over time as broadband becomes more prevalent in south america  and other parts of asia  it will expand   he added. what telcos really want to do is to send the  triple-play  of video  voice  and data down one single line  be it cable or dsl (digital subscriber line). some are talking about  quadruple play   too  with mobile services added into the mix. it is an emerging new breed of competition for satellite and cable broadcasters and operators. according to technology analysts  tdg research  there will be 20 million subscribers to iptv services in under six years.  key to the appeal of sending tv programmes down the same line as the web data  whenever a viewer wants it  is that it uses the same technology as the internet. it means there is not just a one-way relationship between the viewer and the  broadcaster . this allows for more dvd-like interactivity  limitless storage and broadcast space  bespoke channel  playlists   and thousands of hours of programmes or films at a viewer s fingertips. it potentially lets operators target programmes to smaller  niche or localised audiences  sending films to bollywood fans for instance  as well as individual devices.  operators could also send high-definition programmes straight to the viewer  bypassing the need for a special broadcast receiver. perhaps most compelling - yet some might say insignificant - is instantaneous channel flicking. currently  there is a delay when you try to do this on satellite  cable or freeview. with iptv  the speed is 15 milliseconds.  that gets rounds of applause   according to mr graczyk. microsoft is one of the companies that started thinking about iptv some time ago.  we believe this will be the way all tv is delivered in the future - but that is several years away   said mr graczyk.  as with music  tv has moved to digital formats.  the things software can do to integrate media into devices means a whole new generation of connected entertainment experiences that cross devices from the tv  to the mobile  to the gaming console and so on.  the company intends its microsoft s iptv edition software  an end-to-end management and delivery platform  to let telcos to do exactly that  seamlessly. it has netted seven major telcos as customers  representing a potential audience of 25 million existing broadband subscribers. its deal with us telco sbc was the largest tv software deal to date  said mr graczyk.  iptv is about more than telcos  though. there are several web-based offerings that aim to put control in the hands of the consumer by exploiting the net s power. jeremy allaire  chief of brightcove  told the bbc news website that it would be a flavour of iptv that was about harnessing the web as a  channel .   it is not just niches  but about exploiting content not usually viewed   he said.  we are focussed on the owners of video content who have rights to digitally distribute content  and who often see unencumbered distribution.  for them to do it through cable and so on is price-prohibitive   he said. this type of iptv service might also be a distribution channel for more established publishers who have unique types of content that they cannot offer through cable and satellite operators - history channel archives  for instance. what is a clear sign that iptv has a future is that microsoft is not the only player in the field. there are a lot of other  middleware  players providing similar management services as microsoft  like myrio and c-cor. but it will up to the viewer to decide if it really is to be successful.
sport,france v wales (sat) stade de france  paris  saturday  26 february  1600 gmt  bbc1  radio 4 lw and this website  france may have beaten scotland and england but they were tedious and uninspired throughout both matches. wales  on the other hand  have played some fine rugby and have made their best start since they last won the title in 1994. they also have a good record at the stade de france  having won their first two games there  in 1999 and 2001. wales have made two changes from the team that thrashed italy 38-8 in rome.  kevin morgan takes over from his injured newport-gwent dragons colleague hal luscombe on the right wing. in the pack neath-swansea ospreys forward ryan jones bas been brought on the blind-side flank to beef up the wales back row in place of jonathan thomas. wales coach mike ruddock is determined that his team will not go into their shells after their promising start to the championship.  graham henry (former wales coach) said a couple of years ago that we should  be bold  when going to france  and he was proved right   said ruddock.  that is a great way to approach the game  and something we will further endorse with the players this week.   despite their stuttering displays in their first two games defending champions france are also unbeaten. under-pressure coach bernard laporte has made four changes  with yannick nyanga  the debutant julien laharrague  aurelien rougerie and yannick jauzion coming into the side. france have been criticised for the absence of traditional  french flair  as they have ground their way to victory so far this year but captain fabien pelous sees hope on the horizon.  i get the impression we are getting better   he said.  against wales  which is different from the teams we have beaten  i hope we can show our proper game.   j laharrague; a rougerie  y jauzion  d traille  c dominici; y delaigue  d yachvili; s marconnet  s bruno  n mas; f pelous (capt)  j thion; s betsen  y nyanga  j bonnaire (bourgoin).  w servat  o milloud  g lamboley  i harinordoquy  p mignoni  f michalak  j-p grandclaude.  g thomas (capt); k morgan  t shanklin  g henson  s williams; s jones  d peel; g jenkins  m davies  a jones; b cockbain  r sidoli; r jones  m williams  m owen.  r mcbryde  j yapp  j thomas  r sowden-taylor  g cooper  c sweeney  r williams.
entertainment,tv show unites angolan families angolan families who are attempting to track each other down  after being separated by nearly 30 years of war  are succeeding thanks to a hugely popular tv show.  meeting point has become one of tv angola s most watched programmes  and has reunited hundreds of families. it runs daily  not only on the television but also on the radio. every friday  hundreds of people gather in luanda s independence square to record a message in front of the tv cameras  in the hope that a lost relative will see it. many relatives have been reunited on air.  at the beginning there was an absolute explosion - huge  huge crowds   sergio gera  the programme s chief co-ordinator  told bbc world service s assignment programme.  now things are a little calmer  there are slightly less people - but  after two and a half years of broadcasting  there are still a lot of people going.   the media in the southern african country  twice the size of france  has been gripped by the quest of so many people to find their relatives. hundreds of thousands of people died in angola s 30-year civil war  which finally ended in 2002  and tens of thousands of people are still missing. many have not heard anything for 10 or more years - in all  90% of angolan families have lost someone.  the idea of recording in independence square was modelled on a square in the argentine capital buenos aries  where mothers go to talk about the dead and the missing  and to exchange news. one woman  victoria lapete  found her sister - the only remaining member of her family - in independence square live on meeting point. she had not seen her sibling for 28 years.  when we saw each other  we threw ourselves into each other s arms   she told assignment.  we started to cry. i felt very  very happy  because i d spent so long without any family. suddenly i had a sister again.  however  angola is one of the poorest countries in africa  and the number of people with access to either a television or radio is comparatively few. this means that elsewhere in the country  the task of reuniting families lies primarily with the international committee of the red cross (icrc). in the city of wambo  the icrc runs the gazetta - a 200-page  tabloid-size book which contains 13 000 names of missing or displaced.  their task is made much harder by the huge number of landmines dotted around the country.  it s very difficult - there are many displaced   stated joaquim sahundi  head of tracing in wambo.   as they try to go back [home]  others are trying to relocate their relatives. many people are getting injured because of that - in the villages  in the bush  there has been no clearance of mines.  when people are crossing these areas  they step on mines.  the icrc also uses the media where it can  running four daily broadcasts of their lists of the missing on radio angola. meanwhile  there remain massive challenges to angolan families even once they are reunited.  the programme of family reunification is extremely important  but for these families to remain reunified  there has to be social integration  job access  education  healthcare   said rafael marques of the pro-democracy george soros foundation for southern africa.  essentially the government is waiting for the international community to pay for the reconstruction - that s why it has been persistently calling for a donor s conference. that is just a way of detaching itself from its political responsibilities.
politics,mrs howard gets key election role michael howard s ex-model wife  sandra  is to play a leading role in the conservative election campaign.  mrs howard will make solo visits to target seats as well as accompanying her husband on his helicopter campaign trail criss-crossing the country. mr howard will host a news conference at the party s london hq every morning  tory co-chairman liam fox said.  we want michael to be as accessible as possible   mr fox said  adding that the party was not afraid of scrutiny.  the tory leader wanted to meet as many ordinary members of the public  mr fox said. tony blair has also said he is intending to get out and talk to as many people as possible during the election campaign. but labour campaign chiefs say there are no plans for mr blair to hold a daily news conference.  mr fox responded by accusing the prime minister of  hiding away from the scrutiny of london s media . the liberal democrats also say they are planning to hold daily news conferences with charles kennedy. on mrs howard s role  mr fox said:  sandra has already been campaigning with michael on a number of visits and has been undertaking short visits herself.  that pattern will continue. it s worked very well up until now.  mrs howard made her debut speech at the conservative party conference in bournemouth last october. she used her speech on the fringe to highlight the work of a drugs charity  addaction  which she supports. mrs howard has also appeared along side her husband on tv chat shows. during an interview on itv1 s this morning she said she often criticised her husband for not showing the side of him that she knows.
sport,reyes tricked into real admission jose antonio reyes has added to speculation linking him with a move from arsenal to real madrid after falling victim to a radio prank.  the spaniard believed he was talking to real madrid sporting director emilio butragueno when he allegedly berated his team-mates as  bad people .  i wish i was playing for real madrid   the 21-year-old told cadena cope.  hopefully it could happen. i love the way madrid play. i m not happy with the way things are.  the striker joined the gunners from seville for £17m at the start of 2004  but it has frequently been reported that he is homesick. he began the season in superb form but has struggled to maintain his high standards as arsenal have gradually lost the premiership initiative to manchester united and chelsea.  if i m not (playing for real) i m going to have to carry on playing with some bad people   he added.   i m sure there are none in the real dressing room.  i m happy madrid is interested in me because it has always been my dream since i was little to play there.  before the story surfaced  reyes had moved to play down reports linking him with the spanish giants  issuing a statement through arsenal describing the speculation as  flattering .  i have seen the stories in the media linking me with real madrid   he had said on thursday lunchtime.  but not only am i under contract at arsenal  i am happy here and committed to helping the team win more trophies.  butragueno  meanwhile  was angry at being impersonated by the radio disc jockey.  it is a disgrace  there is no foundation to this   he said.  he is an arsenal player and we have to be respectful. we have to be careful because of the rumours that appear in the news.
entertainment,comic morris returns with sitcom comedian chris morris  who created controversial tv show brass eye  is to return to screens with a new sitcom about a spoof london media worker.  morris will direct and co-write nathan barley - a character from cult website tv go home - for channel 4. it is a send-up of the stereotypical  cool  metropolitan media scene  with nicholas burns in the title role. a brass eye satire of the media handling of paedophilia sparked 2 500 complaints in 2001.  nathan barley will be  a character-driven comedy   according to charlie brooker  who created tv go home in 1999 and has co-written the series. barley is described as a  webmaster  guerrilla film-maker  screenwriter  dj and in his own words  a  self-facilitating media node . the story will also feature dan ashcroft  a style magazine columnist  and his sister claire  a film-maker who hates the  cool  scene. as well as brass eye  morris was behind another news show satire  the day today  and dark sketch comedy jam. the new show is expected to begin in february.
tech,itunes user sues apple over ipod a user of apple s itunes music service is suing the firm saying it is unfair he can only use an ipod to play songs.  he says apple is breaking anti-competition laws in refusing to let other music players work with the site. apple  which opened its online store in 2003 after launching the ipod in 2001  uses technology to ensure each song bought only plays on the ipod. californian thomas slattery filed the suit in the us district court in san jose and is seeking damages.   apple has turned an open and interactive standard into an artifice that prevents consumers from using the portable hard drive digital music player of their choice   the lawsuit states. the key to such a lawsuit would be convincing a court that a single brand like itunes is a market in itself separate from the rest of the online music market  according to ernest gellhorn  an anti-trust law professor at george mason university.  as a practical matter  the lower courts have been highly sceptical of such claims   prof gellhorn said. apple has sold more than six million ipods since the gadget was launched and has an 87% share of the market for portable digital music players  market research firm npd group has reported.  more than 200 million songs have been sold by the itunes music store since it was launched.  apple has unlawfully bundled  tied  and/or leveraged its monopoly in the market for the sale of legal online digital music recordings to thwart competition in the separate market for portable hard drive digital music players  and vice-versa   the lawsuit said. mr slattery called himself an itunes customer who  was also forced to purchase an apple ipod  if he wanted to take his music with him to listen to. a spokesman for apple declined to comment. apple s online music store uses a different format for songs than napster  musicmatch  realplayer and others. the rivals use the mp3 format or microsoft s wma format while apple uses aac  which it says helps thwart piracy. the wma format also includes so-called digital rights management which is used to block piracy.
business,consumer spending lifts us growth us economic growth accelerated in the third quarter  helped by strong consumer spending  official figures have shown.  the economy expanded at an annual rate of 3.7% in the july to september period  the commerce department said. the figure marked an increase on the 3.3% growth recorded in the second quarter  but fell short of the 4.2% rate pencilled in by forecasters. the increase reflected the biggest jump in consumer spending in a year.  it was a little softer than the consensus  but not a real surprise   said gary thayer  an economist at ag edwards & sons. friday s growth estimate is one of the last significant pieces of economic data before the 2 november presidential election.  democrat challenger john kerry has criticised president george w bush s handling of the economy  pointing to a net loss of over 800 000 jobs since mr bush took office. analysts said the economy was still not growing fast enough to stimulate large-scale job creation.  it s a pretty good growth rate  but it may not be good enough to create enough jobs   said robert brusca  chief economist at fact and opinion economics in new york. however  president bush is expected to point to commerce department figures showing that consumer spending grew at 4.6% in the third quarter  up from just 1.6% in the second  as evidence that his policies are generating solid growth. consumer spending accounts for about two thirds of all economic activity in the us.  the weaker than expected growth figure makes it less likely that the us federal reserve will raise interest rates next month  economists said.  the economy regained some traction in the third quarter  but the growth is not robust   ag edwards  thayer.  i think that means the fed can take its time raising rates. we ll probably see one more rate hike before the end of the year.  in an effort to pre-empt rising inflation  the federal reserve has pushed through three quarter-point rate rises since june this year  taking borrowing costs to 1.75%. on the financial markets  the dollar fell slightly against the euro and the yen  while the dow jones index of leading us shares was little changed.
tech,kenyan school turns to handhelds at the mbita point primary school in western kenya students click away at a handheld computer with a stylus.  they are doing exercises in their school textbooks which have been digitised. it is a pilot project run by eduvision  which is looking at ways to use low cost computer systems to get up-to-date information to students who are currently stuck with ancient textbooks. matthew herren from eduvision told the bbc programme go digital how the non-governmental organisation uses a combination of satellite radio and handheld computers called e-slates.  the e-slates connect via a wireless connection to a base station in the school. this in turn is connected to a satellite radio receiver. the data is transmitted alongside audio signals.  the base station processes the information from the satellite transmission and turns it into a form that can be read by the handheld e-slates.  it downloads from the satellite and every day processes the stream  sorts through content for the material destined for the users connected to it. it also stores this on its hard disc.   the system is cheaper than installing and maintaining an internet connection and conventional computer network. but mr herren says there are both pros and cons to the project.  it s very simple to set up  just a satellite antenna on the roof of the school  but it s also a one-way connection  so getting feedback or specific requests from end users is difficult.   the project is still at the pilot stage and eduvision staff are on the ground to attend to teething problems with the linux-based system.  the content is divided into visual information  textual information and questions. users can scroll through these sections independently of each other.  eduvision is planning to include audio and video files as the system develops and add more content. mr herren says this would vastly increase the opportunities available to the students. he is currently in negotiations to take advantage of a project being organised by search site google to digitise some of the world s largest university libraries.  all books in the public domain  something like 15 million  could be put on the base stations as we manufacture them. then every rural school in africa would have access to the same libraries as the students in oxford and harvard  currently the project is operating in an area where there is mains electricity. but mr herren says eduvision already has plans to extend it to more remote regions.  we plan to put a solar panel at the school with the base station  have the e-slates charge during the day when the children are in school  then they can take them home at night and continue working.  maciej sundra  who designed the user interface for the e-slates  says the project s ultimate goal is levelling access to knowledge around the world.  why in this age when most people do most research using the internet are students still using textbooks  the fact that we are doing this in a rural developing country is very exciting - as they need it most.
business,brewers  profits lose their fizz heineken and carlsberg  two of the world s largest brewers  have reported falling profits after beer sales in western europe fell flat.  dutch firm heineken saw its annual profits drop 33% and warned that earnings in 2005 may also slide. danish brewer carlsberg suffered a 3% fall in profits due to waning demand and increased marketing costs. both are looking to russia and china to provide future growth as western european markets are largely mature.  heineken s net income fell to 537m euros ($701m; £371m) during 2004  from 798m euro a year ago. it blamed weak demand in western europe and currency losses. it had warned in september that the weakening us dollar  which has cut the value of foreign sales  would knock 125m euros off its operating profits. despite the dip in profits  heineken s sales have been improving and total revenue for the year was 10bn euros  up 8.1% from 9.26bn euros in 2003. heineken said it now plans to invest 100m euros in  aggressive  and  high-impact  marketing in europe and the us in 2005. heineken  which also owns the amstel and murphy s stout brands  said it would also seek to cut costs. this may involve closing down breweries.  heineken increased its dividend payment by 25% to 40 euro cents  but warned that the continued impact of a weaker dollar and an increased marketing spend may lead to a drop in 2005 net profit.  carlsberg  the world s fifth-largest brewer  saw annual pre-tax profits fall to 3.4bn danish kroner (456m euros). its beer sales have been affected by the sluggish european economy and by the banning of smoking in pubs in several european countries. nevertheless  total sales increased 4% to 36bn kroner  thanks to strong sales of carlsberg lager in russia and poland. carlsberg is more optimistic than heineken about 2005  projecting a 15% rise in net profits for the year. however  it also plans to cut 200 jobs in sweden  where sales have been hit by demand for cheap  imported brands.  we remain cautious about the medium-to-long term outlook for revenue growth across western europe for a host of economic  social and structural reasons   investment bank merrill lynch said of carlsberg.
business,s&n extends indian beer venture the uk s biggest brewer  scottish and newcastle (s&n)  is to buy 37.5% of india s united breweries in a deal worth 4.66bn rupees ($106m:£54.6m).  s&n will buy a 17.5% equity stake in united  maker of the well-known kingfisher lager brand  and make a public offer to buy another 20% stake. a similar holding will be controlled by vijay mallya  chair of the indian firm. the deal was a  natural development  of its joint venture with united  said tony froggatt  s&n s chief executive.  its top brands include newcastle brown ale  foster s  john smith s  strongbow and kronenbourg. in 2002 s&n and united agreed to form a strategic partnership  one that would include a joint venture business and a uk investment in the indian brewer. the joint venture was established in may 2003. with both parties having a 40% stake in the venture - millennium alcobev. millennium alcobev will now be merged with united  which expects post-merger to have about half of india s beer market.  india  with a population of more than one billion  consumes about 1.2 billion bottles of beer every year. kingfisher has market share of about 29%. in addition to the equity stake s&n is to invest 2.47bn rupees in united through non-convertible redeemable preference shares. meanwhile  united s budget airline  kingfisher airlines  is to buy 10 a320 aircraft from airbus and has the option to buy 20 more aircraft in a deal worth up to $1.8bn. the airline  the brainchild of mr mallya  expects to start its operations by the end of april. the new airline would break even in the very first year of operation  mr mallya said.
tech,concerns over windows atms cash machine networks could soon be more susceptible to computer viruses  a security firm has warned.  the warning is being issued because many banks are starting to use the windows operating system in machines. already there have been four incidents in which windows viruses have disrupted networks of cash machines running the microsoft operating system. but banking experts say the danger is being overplayed and that the risks of infection and disruption are small.  for many years the venerable ibm operating system  known as os/2  has been the staple software used to power many of the 1.4m cash machines in operation around the world. but ibm will end support for os/2 in 2006 which is forcing banks to look for alternatives. there are also other pressures making banks turn to windows said dominic hirsch  managing director of financial analysis firm retail banking research.  he said many cash machines will also have to be upgraded to make full use of the new europay  mastercard and visa credit cards that use computer chips instead of magnetic stripes to store data. us laws that demand disabled people get equal access to information will also force banks to make their cash machines more versatile and able to present information in different ways. todd thiemann  spokesman for anti-virus firm trend micro  said the move to windows in cash machines was not without risks. mr thiemann said research by the towergroup showed that 70% of new cash machines being installed were windows based.  already  he said  there have been four incidents in which cash machines have been unavailable for hours due to viruses affecting the network of the bank that owns them.  in january 2003 the slammer worm knocked out 13 000 cash machines of the bank of america and many of those operated by the canadian imperial bank of commerce. in august of the same year  cash machines of two un-named banks were put out of action for hours following an infection by the welchia worm. incidents like this happen  said mr thiemann  because when banks start using windows cash machines they also change the networking technology used to link the devices to their back office computers. this often means that all the cash machines and computers in a bank share the same data network.  this could mean that cash machines get caught up in the viruses that are going around because they have a common transmission system   he said.  banks need to consider protection as part of the investment to maintain the security of that network   mr thiemann told bbc news online.  but mr hirsch from retail banking research said the number of cash machines actually at risk was low because so few were upgraded every year.  currently  he said  a cash machine has a lifetime of up to 10 years which means that only about 10% of all atms get swapped for a newer model every year.  windows cash machines have been around for several years   he said.  most banks simply upgrade as part of their usual replacement cycle.   in theory there is a bigger threat with windows than os/2   he said   but i do not think that the banks are hugely concerned at the moment.   it s pretty unusual to hear about virus problems with atms   he said. the many different security systems built-in to cash machines meant there was no chance that a virus could cause them to start spitting out cash spontaneously  he said. banks were more likely to be worried about internal networks being overwhelmed by worms and viruses and customers not being able to get cash out at all  he added. a spokesman for the association of payment and clearing services (apacs) which represents the uk s payments industry said the risk from viruses was minimal.  there s no concern that there s going to be any type of virus hitting the uk networks   he said. risks of infection were small because the data networks that connect uk cash machines together and the operators of the atms themselves were a much smaller and tightly-knit community than in the us where viruses have struck.
business,retail sales show festive fervour uk retail sales were better than expected in november as christmas shoppers began their seasonal flock to the high street  figures show.  the office for national statistics (ons) said retail sales rose 0.6% on the month and 6.1% on the year. but the figures  along with this week s inflation report  could trigger another interest rate rise in the new year. however  recent data from the british retail consortium showed a 0.2% slip in high street sales during november.  the ons data confounded analyst expectations. many had expected sales to fall slightly in november as shoppers put off buying christmas presents until december. however  retailers  attempts to draw in the crowds may be behind november s unexpected rise in sales  they say. aggressive tactics  such as one-day discount sales adopted by stores such as marks & spencer  appear to have paid off.  price discounting has certainly accounted for much of this because the value of retail sales hasn t grown as much as volumes   said investec economist david page. the figures sparked a rally for sterling as the data supported the view that it is too early to assume that base rates have peaked.
sport,johnson edges out rival sotherton jade johnson edged out rival kelly sotherton with her last effort to claim the aaas long jump title at the norwich union european indoor trials.  olympic heptathlon bronze medallist  sotherton  led the event with her first leap of 6.43m - a personal best. but johnson  who has not competed indoors for five years  leapt to a life-time best of 6.50m in her last jump  after four fouls. both johnson and sotherton passed the european championships qualifying mark. although sotherton s main aim in madrid next month will be the pentathlon where she will take on olympic heptathlon champion carolina kluft. ireland s  delivered a shock in the men s 200m as he stormed to his first major title in 21.01 seconds. british favourite chris lambert had to settle for second place while defending champion ireland s paul brizzel took third. there was some consolation for lambert as he set a personal best of 20.94 in the first round - good enough to qualify for europe.  two-time aaas champion allyn condon and ian mackie had no such luck as they were disqualified in the heats. there was plenty of hot action in the men s 60m hurdles where scotland s  was vying for top spot with olympian andy turner. scott  22  smashed his personal best on the way to the final  where he broke it again to win the aaas title in 7.58 seconds. turner finished second in 7.82 after previously setting a personal best on the 7.83 in the semi-finals  while damien greaves did not finish the final. the trio of athletes have reached the european qualifying mark this season though one of them is set to miss out on a call-up to the british squad.  comfortably defended her 3 000m title  clocking eight minutes  49.87 seconds to easily surpass the european qualifying mark. the european cross country bronze medallist is ranked number one in europe this season and will go to madrid with high hopes. helen clitheroe was agonisingly close to the 9:05.00 qualifying mark as she claimed the runners-up spot in a personal best of 9:05.73. in the men s 800m heats   qualified fastest in the 800m heats to lay down a challenge to in-form  . the welsh runner attacked the last 200m to come through ahead of james thie in one minute  49.87 seconds. mcilroy  who is third in the european rankings  eased across the finish in 1:50.87 to set up a showdown in sunday s final in sheffield. both watkins and mcilroy have already achieved the european qualifying mark. scotland s susan deacon stole   s thunder in the final of the women s 200m. fraser became the fastest british woman over the distance this season when she qualified for the final in 23.68 seconds - though that time is outside the european standard. but deacon claimed her first aaas title over the distance  edging fraser into second in 23.67. in the women s shot put veteran  claimed her fourth aaas title with a throw of 15.27m. but that mark was not good enough for the 39-year-old to book her place at next month s european indoor championships in madrid. sotherton finished fifth after producing two throws of 13.77m. in the absence of injured british number one carl myerscough   claimed the men s shot put title with a throw of 17.64m  which was below the qualifying mark.  sale s robert mitchell climbed to a season s best of 2.20m - just 3cm short of the european standard - to claim the british indoor high jump title.  could only clear 2.16m to finish in fourth but the 27-year-old s disappointment will be tempered as he had already achieved the qualifying mark at a meeting in slovenia on tuesday. there was bad luck for british number one  in the pole vault as he failed to clear the bar after deciding to come in at 5.45m. the aaas indoor title went instead to ashley swain  who climbed to a season s best of 5.25m and ireland s taniesha scanlon set a new national record of 13.28m in the women s triple jump.
business,china now top trader with japan china overtook the us to become japan s biggest trading partner in 2004  according to numbers released by japan s finance ministry on wednesday.  china accounted for 20.1% of japan s trade in 2004  compared with 18.6% for the us. in 2003  the us was ahead with 20.5% and china came second with 19.2%. the change highlights china s growing importance as an economic powerhouse. in 2004  japan s imports from and exports to china (and hong kong) added up to 22 201bn yen ($214.6bn;£114.5bn). this is the highest figure for japanese trade with china since records began in 1947. it compares with 20 479.5bn yen in trade with the us.  trade with the us during 2004 was hurt by one-off factors  including a 13-month ban on us beef imports following the discovery of a cow infected with mad cow disease (bse) in the us. however  economists predict china will become an even more important japanese trading partner in the coming years. on tuesday  figures showed china s economy grew by 9.5% in 2004 and experts say the overall growth picture remains strong. analysts see two spurs to future growth as being china s membership of the world trade organisation and lower trade tariffs. during 2004  japan s trade surplus grew 17.9% to 12.011 trillion yen  with more than half the surplus  6.962 trillion yen  accounted for by its trade with the us. in december  the surplus grew 1.8% on a year ago to 1.14 trillion yen thanks to stronger-than-expected exports.
sport,tindall wants second opinion england centre mike tindall is to seek a second opinion before having surgery on a foot injury that could force him to miss the entire six nations.  the bath player was already out of the opener against wales on 5 february because of a hand problem.  mike had a specialist review on a fracture in his right mid foot   said england doctor simon kemp.  before a final decision is made on surgery... medical teams have decided he should see a second specialist.   england coach andy robinson is already without centre will greenwood and flanker richard hill while fly-half jonny wilkinson is certain to miss at least the first two games. robinson is expected to announce his new-look england line-up on monday for the match at the millennium stadium. and newcastle s 18-year-old centre mathew tait is set to stand in for tindall alongside club team-mate jamie noon.  meanwhile  tindall is targeting a return to action before the end of the regular zurich premiership season on 30 april. he will also aim to be back to full fitness before the lions tour to new zealand this summer.
business,swiss cement firm in buying spree swiss cement firm holcim has bid $800m (£429m) to buy two indian cement firms and a holding company in the country.  it plans to buy associated cement companies (acc)  ambuja cement eastern and the holding firm  ambuja cement india ltd  a holcim statement said. shares in acc fell 5.5% as investors  who thought the offer was underpriced  decided to sell. meanwhile  uk-based firm aggregate industries said it had agreed a £1.8bn takeover by holcim.  the deal with aggregates will give holcim  the world s second-biggest cement maker  an entry into the uk market and boost its presence in the us. peter tom  who will remain as aggregate chief executive  said the 138p a share offer provided  significant value  for shareholders. the markfield  leicestershire-based company runs 142 quarries in the uk and the us. it also has 164 ready-mixed concrete plants  90 asphalt plants and 32 pre-cast concrete factories.  if the indian deals go ahead  it will give holcim a major presence in the world s fastest-growing market behind china. acc is india s second-largest cement maker with an annual capacity of 18.2 million tonnes and a market share of 13%.  holcim is looking to buy it (acc) very cheap   said kk mittal  a fund manager with escorts mutual fund in new delhi.  the market is not impressed. if they want a substantial chunk  then they should be paying a premium over the market price.  shares in holcim rose by 2.3% on thursday following news of the takeover.
sport,o connell rejects lions rumours ireland and munster lock paul o connell has dismissed media reports linking him to the captaincy of the lions tour to new zealand this summer.  o connell is rumoured to be among the front-runners for the job  but says he is totally focused on sunday s six nations crunch clash with england.  i honestly don t think about these reports   he told bbc sport.  the lions thing is all speculation and newspaper talk  nothing more. i just ignore it and get on with my job.  he added:  the only thing that annoys me after reading some reports is what the opposition locks think.  i can just imagine them saying  i m going to show this guy what s what about second row play . that s the one thing that makes me cringe.  o connell  who made a try-scoring international debut against wales two years ago  is enjoying his meteoric rise into rugby s shop window - but refuses to be drawn on the lions.   i have spoken to sir clive woodward a few times  but not for very long  certainly nothing about summer holidays   he joked. he also said he remains wary of wounded england s abilities coming into sunday s game after two straight defeats  dismissing predictions of a certain irish victory.  it s very dangerous to think that. this england team has so much experience and skill. you do not become a bad team overnight.  they have two world class game-breakers in josh lewsey and jason robinson  while charlie hodgson is just ready to click into place.  he insisted ireland will not make the mistake of being over-confident.  that s not going to happen in our squad. no ireland team lining up to play england will ever fall into that trap   he said.  every time we play england we know what a big task it is. look at what they did to us two years ago. i remember that game all too well  and it was not a good feeling.  i came on as a replacement and we were losing 13-6  and ended up getting hammered 42-6  so i know what can happen when england come to dublin.  they could so easily have been coming to dublin with two wins and staring a grand slam in the face as well.
entertainment,pupils to get anti-piracy lessons lessons on music piracy and copyright issues are to be taught to secondary school pupils in the uk.  the lessons  aimed at 11 to 14-year-olds  will introduce them to copyright - including the issues of downloading from the internet and the illegal copying of cds - and its role in protecting creativity.  music piracy  including illegally swapping music online  costs the uk music industry millions every year and has been blamed for a decline in world-wide cd sales. british music rights (bmr) - which was formed to represent the interests of songwriters and composers - worked with education experts to put together a learning pack.  songwriter guy chambers  who has worked with stars including robbie williams  has thrown his support behind the scheme. he said as well as educating children about music piracy  it would also protect young people planning a career in the music industry from  unscrupulous  individuals. at a debate in london to launch the scheme  chambers said:  i think it is important that young people receive practical and engaging learning in schools.  these lessons will give them an insight into how the creative industries work which will help them in possible future careers.  the education pack  which has already been requested by more than 1 600 secondary schools  is aimed at giving children an understanding of copyright in relation to the music industry. it will also teach children about the importance of royalties and raises awareness of different careers in the music industry  particularly in the digital age.  henri yoxall  general manager of british music rights  told bbc news schools had been crying out for a resource to help them educate pupils about the issues. the scheme - which is an extension of bmr s respect the value of music campaign - is also being backed by singer-songwriters feargal sharkey  lucie silvas and grammy award-winning composer david arnold. silvas said:  i think it is so important that students gain an understanding of how the music industry works when they are at a young age.  i wish i had been given an opportunity like this when i was at school.  emma pike  director general of british music rights  said:  we believe that copyright is an essential part of teaching music in schools. it is vital that the creatives of the future know how to turn their ideas into value.  copyright education has always been important... creatives are facing more challenges and more opportunities from technological change.  technology is allowing people to create music and distribute their music to the public in a whole host of new ways.
business,steady job growth continues in us the us created fewer jobs than expected in december  but analysts said that the dip in hiring was not enough to derail the world s biggest economy.  according to labor department figures  157 000 new jobs were added last month. that took 2004 s total to 2.2 million  the best showing in five years. job creation was one of last year s main concerns for the us economy. while worries still remain  the conditions are set for steady growth in 2005  analysts said. the unemployment rate stayed at 5.4% in december  and about 200 000 jobs will need to be created each month if that figure is to drop.   it was a respectable report   said michael moran  analyst at daiwa securities.   payroll growth in december was a little lighter than the consensus forecast  but we had upward revisions to the prior two months and an increase in manufacturing employment.   manufacturing is a cyclical area of the economy and if it s showing job growth  it s a good indication that the economy is on a solid growth track.  that means that the federal reserve is likely to continue its policy of raising interest rates. the fed lifted borrowing costs five times last year to 2.25%  citing evidence the us economic recovery was becoming more robust.  job creation was one of last year s main concerns for the us economy  and proved to be a main topic of debate in the us presidential election. while demand for workers is far from booming  the conditions are set for steady growth.  overall  compared to the previous year it looks great  it just keeps going stronger and stronger and i expect that to be the case  in 2005  said kurt karl  economist at swiss re in new york. meanwhile  economists cautioned against reading too much into data from the federal reserve showing an unexpected $8.7bn drop in consumer debt in november. a fall in consumer spending  which makes up about two-thirds of all us economic activity  could help limit the extent of any future interest rate rises. but economists said there could be a number of reasons for a fall in the borrowing  which include credit cards and personal loans  while noting that such figures can vary on a month-to-month basis.
business,boeing unveils new 777 aircraft us aircraft firm boeing has unveiled its new long-distance 777 plane  as it tries to regain its position as the industry s leading manufacturer.  the 777-200lr will be capable of flying almost 11 000 miles non-stop  linking cities such as london and sydney. boeing  in contrast to european rival airbus  hopes airlines will want to fly smaller aircraft over longer distances. airbus  which overtook boeing as the number one civilian planemaker in 2003  is focusing on so-called super jumbos.  analysts are divided over which approach is best and say that this latest tussle between boeing and airbus may prove to be a defining moment for the airline industry. boeing plans to offer twin-engine planes that are able to fly direct to many of the world s airports  getting rid of the need for connecting flights.  it is banking on smaller  slimmer planes such as the 777-200lr and its much-anticipated 787 dreamliner plane  which is set to take to the skies in 2008. the 777-200lr  which had its launch delayed by the 11 september attacks in the us  is the fifth variation of boeing s twin-aisle 777 plane. the company offically  rolled-out  the new 777 in seattle at 2200 gmt. better fuel efficiency from engines made by ge and lighter materials mean that the plane can connect almost any two cities worldwide.   boeing has the latest variant in a very successful line of airplanes and there is no doubt it will continue to be very successful   said david learmount  operations and safety editor at industry magazine flight international. but the 777-200lr  is a niche player   mr learmount continued  adding that reach was not the only criteria airlines used when picking their aircraft. mr learmount pointed out that the 777-200lr has been on the market for a couple of years and only had limited success at attracting orders. he also said that while the plane may be able to fly to sydney from london in one hit  prevailing winds meant that it would have to stop somewhere on the return journey.  for airbus  the future is big - it is pinning its hopes on planes that can carry as many as 840 people between large hub airports. from there  passengers would be ferried to their final destinations by smaller planes. airbus is also keeping its options open and plans to compete in all the main categories of aircraft. it has been producing a rival to boeing s 777 line for more than a year.  airbus is now where boeing was a few years ago  with its product range  said flight international s mr learmount.  both boeing and airbus have been taking orders for their new planes. boeing said it expected to sell about 500 of its 777-200lr planes over the next 20 years. it already has orders from pakistan international airlines and eva of taiwan. these orders should help underpin the company s profits. boeing said earnings during the last three months of 2004 dropped by 84% because of costs relating to stopping production of its smallest airliner  the 717  and the cancellation of a us air force 767 tanker contract. net profit was $186m (£98m; 143m euros) in the quarter  compared with $1.13bn in the same period in 2003.
entertainment,keanu reeves given hollywood star actor keanu reeves  best known for his role in the matrix movies  has been awarded a star on the prestigious hollywood walk of fame.  the 40-year-old attended the unveiling of the star with his mother  patricia  and thanked her for inspiring him to become an actor.  when i was 15 years old i asked my mom if it was ok to be an actor   reeves said.  she said:  whatever you want .  his star is the 2 277th to be embedded in the pavement on hollywood boulevard.  the actor  who was born in the lebanese capital beirut  also spoke of how he dropped out of school to pursue an acting career.  hollywood was calling   he said   so i got in my car  a 1969 british racing green volvo with holes in the floor and bricks holding up the seats. i was a young man full of hopes and dreams.  reeves first found fame in the teen comedy bill and ted s excellent adventure  and went on to combine such blockbusters as speed  the devil s advocate and the matrix series  with smaller films including my own private idaho. more recently he was seen in something s gotta give alongside jack nicholson and diane keaton. his next film  the supernatural thriller constantine  is released in the us later this month and opens in the uk in march.
sport,wenger handed summer war chest arsenal boss arsene wenger has been guaranteed transfer funds to boost his squad the summer.  the club s managing director  keith edelman  stressed that the development of their new £350m stadium had no affect on wenger s spending power.  the money is there. don t worry we ve got it   edelman told bbc sport.  hopefully  we ll spend it this summer and in the coming years. arsene attends all our board meetings and he knows our finances are very strong.   edelman added that it was pointless having a brand new stadium if the team did not match the surroundings.  its great to have nice  new surroundings  but if the team aren t performing on the pitch  then there isn t great respect in having a fabulous stadium   he said.  it s important that we had sufficient funds for our team in place  before we began on the stadium.
sport,federer joins all-time greats the last year has seen one player dominate men s tennis  and one country dominate the women s game.  roger federer became the first man since mats wilander in 1988 to win three grand slams in one season. and after anastasia myskina became the first russian woman to win a grand slam at the french open  two more followed at wimbledon and the us open. meanwhile  briton tim henman enjoyed his best year  while greg rusedski fought back superbly from adversity. federer began the year as world number one and holder of the wimbledon and masters cup titles  and set about conquering new ground. the swiss sounded warning of the dominance to come at the australian open.  he ripped through the draw before beating marat safin in the final. andy roddick was the only player to put up any real resistance at wimbledon  and federer s performance against lleyton hewitt in the us open final was breathtaking. federer again got the better of hewitt in the season-ending masters cup. his victory in houston proved to be his 13th successive win in a final  an open era record. the only major let-down was a third-round loss to gustavo kuerten at the french open  and roland garros will be his main target in 2005.  there was also a surprise loss to the unheralded tomas berdych at the olympic games  which saw chile dominate as nicoals massu took the singles and then paired up with fernando gonzaelz to win doubles gold. another major trophy that looks beyond federer is the davis cup  which was won by spain in a 3-2 home success over the usa in seville. roddick struggled on the clay  losing to rafael nadal on the opening day before going down to carlos moya in the all-important fourth rubber.  henman broke new ground by reaching the semis on clay at the french open - a stunning effort - and also at the us open. a quarter-final defeat to mario ancic at wimbledon was disappointing for the limp manner of the briton s defeat  but he remains optimistic of going further next year.  british number two rusedski endured a rollercoaster year  returning to the circuit after being cleared of a doping offence in march. with his ranking down at 168  many feared the 31-year-old s career was over  but he battled back in the second half of the season to re-enter the top 50. the russian women finally delivered on their long-recognised promise in 2004  with myskina  maria sharapova and svetlana kuznetsova winning grand slams  before taking the season-ending fed cup. but while the young russians were on the way up  it was a different story for the belgians and the williams sisters. only veteran lindsay davenport held the new wave at bay  a stunning run of form after wimbledon taking her to number one ahead of amelie mauresmo  whose grand slam drought goes on. the year started in regulation fashion as justine henin-hardenne beat compatriot kim clijsters at the australian open.  a virus ruined the rest of henin-hardenne s year  although she was fit enough to win olympic gold  but clijsters had an even more miserable 2004. she suffered a serious wrist injury and then announced the end of her relationship with lleyton hewitt  and will be happy to see the year end. in their absence  myskina thrashed elena dementieva in a historic  but woeful  all-russian final at the french open. wimbledon was a more refreshing affair as sharapova captivated sw19  showing nerves of steel as she battled past davenport and serena williams to take the title.  davenport was a strong favourite for the us open but  hampered by injury  lost to the powerful and unflappable kuznetsova in the semis. kuznetsova went on to give dementieva another grand slam final thrashing  with the latter s wayward serve becoming one of the talking points of the year. with the russians still improving  the likes of henin-hardenne  clijsters  davenport  mauresmo  venus and serena will need to be fully fit and motivated in 2005. and it may take their compatriot safin to challenge federer on the men s side.
politics,ukip candidate suspended in probe eurosceptic party ukip have suspended a candidate for allegedly suggesting the criminally insane should be killed.  john houston  54  was due to stand in the east kilbride seat in lanarkshire at the next election. but he was suspended after his reported views  including the return of the british empire  were sent to two scottish newspapers. ukip spokesman mark croucher said those who selected mr houston knew nothing of his views. the episode comes at a difficult time for ukip  soon after the high-profile departure of mep robert kilroy-silk. mr houston is alleged to have said that the organs of the criminally insane should be  made available to law-abiding members of the community  and proposed the legalisation of drugs and the sex trade. the document reportedly said:  we re looking for the resurrection of the british empire.  the problems for the human race - environmental and others - can only be dealt with on a global scale  and that calls for a radical alliance of the english-speaking nations  which they are uniquely able to do.  mr croucher said the main issue would be that mr houston s reported views had been presented as ukip policy  which they were not. he said they might have been submissions to a committee working on the party s manifesto  but would not have been matched to mr houston when he was standing to become a candidate. he told bbc news:  he appears to have said these things. we have suspended him as a member and as a candidate.  by all accounts none of this was mentioned at his selection meeting.  it is simply a distraction from the task in hand  the eu constitution  not individual idiocies.  mr houston was quoted in the herald newspaper saying:  i feel ukip have over-reacted and overshot the runway.   peter nielson  who is ukip scotland chairman  said he had suspended mr houston on friday night.  he will remain suspended while the matter is being investigated and then we will decide if and what further action will be taken.  he said that any evidence would be looked into and mr houston may be interviewed by the party. he added:  i can t comment too much at the moment  i have one version from him but i haven t seen the papers yet.
tech,first look at playstation 3 chip some details of the chip inside sony s playstation 3 have been revealed.  sony  ibm and toshiba have released limited data about the so-called cell chip that will be able to carry out trillions of calculations per second. the chip will be made of several different processing cores that work on tasks together. the playstation 3 is expected in 2006 but developers are expecting to get prototypes early next year to tune games that will appear on it at launch.  the three firms have been working on the chip since 2001 but before now few details have been released about how it might function. in a joint statement the three firms gave hints about how the chip will work but fuller details will be released in february next year at the international solid state circuits conference in san francisco.  the three firms claim that the cell chip will be up to 10 times more powerful than existing processors. when put inside powerful computer servers  the cell consortium expects it to be capable of handling 16 trillion floating point operations  or calculations  every second. the chip has also been refined to be able to handle the detailed graphics common in games and the data demands of films and broadband media. ibm said it would start producing the chip in early 2005 at manufacturing plants in the us. the first machines off the line using the cell processor will be computer workstations and servers. a working version of the ps3 is due to be shown off in may 2005 but a full launch of the next generation console is not expected to start until 2006. as well as being inside the playstation 3  the chip will also be used inside high-definition tvs and powerful computers.  in the future  all forms of digital content will be converged and fused onto the broadband network   said ken kutaragi  chief operating officer of sony.  current pc architecture is nearing its limits.
politics,crucial decision on super-casinos a decision on whether to allow westminster to legislate on super-casinos is set to be made by the scottish parliament.  the government has plans for up to eight las vegas style resorts in the uk  one of which is likely to be in glasgow. scottish ministers insist they will still have the final say on whether a super-casino will be built in scotland. but opposition parties say that will not happen in practice. the vote is due to be taken on wednesday and is expected to be close.  the scottish executive believes that the legislation should be handled by westminster. the new law will control internet gambling for the first time and is aimed at preventing children from becoming involved. a super-casino in glasgow could be located at ibrox or the scottish exhibition and conference centre. the new gambling bill going through westminster will allow casino complexes to open to the public  have live entertainment and large numbers of fruit machines with unlimited prizes. but the scottish national party and the tories say the issue of super-casinos should be decided in scotland and believe the executive is shirking its responsibility.
politics,mps criticise child access system divorced parents seeking access to their children are often disadvantaged by the legal system  mps have said.  the constitutional affairs select committee said parents with custody could exploit delays in the system to stop former partners gaining access. courts should be used as a last resort  but where they are  their orders should be enforced more rigorously  mps said. but they rejected the claim made by some campaign groups that there should be a legal presumption of equal access.  currently the presumption is that the interests of the child are paramount.  an arbitrary  template  imposed on all families  whatever the needs of the child  would relegate the welfare of individual children to a secondary position   the mps said.  they said the law should be changed to require family courts specifically to take account of the importance of sustaining the relationship between the child and the non-resident parent in contested cases. this would  reassert the rights of non-resident parents to contact with their children  as well as the rights of children to contact with both their parents  while maintaining sufficient flexibility to cope with issues of safety   they said. delays in court hearings and the inability to effectively enforce court orders allowed  a new  status quo  arrangement for the children to become established by default   they said.   although the courts rigorously avoid conscious bias  there are considerable grounds for accepting that non-resident parents are frequently disadvantaged by the system as it is administered at present.  given the strong animosity between the parties which is common in contested family cases  we find it hard to believe that tactical delay is not sometimes used to the advantage of resident parents.  committee chairman alan beith said the five-month inquiry had been a  complex and emotive  one.  at the moment  far too many contact and residency cases are being dealt with by the courts when they could be better resolved through professional mediation and negotiation   he said.  this situation has to change. the court system should only be used as a last resort  where mediation and negotiation have completely broken down or where issues of abuse or domestic violence need to be dealt with.  this will help to reduce delays and improve the lives of many children across the country.
politics,lib dems  new election pr chief the lib dems have appointed a senior figure from bt to be the party s new communications chief for their next general election effort.  sandy walkington will now work with senior figures such as matthew taylor on completing the party manifesto. party chief executive lord rennard said the appointment was a  significant strengthening of the lib dem team . mr walkington said he wanted the party to be ready for any  mischief  rivals or the media tried to throw at it.   my role will be to ensure this new public profile is effectively communicated at all levels   he said.  i also know the party will be put under scrutiny in the media and from the other parties as never before - and we will need to show ourselves ready and prepared to counter the mischief and misrepresentation that all too often comes from the party s opponents.  the party is already demonstrating on every issue that it is the effective opposition.  mr walkington s new job title is director of general election communications.
tech,sporting rivals go to extra time the current slew of sports games offers unparalleled opportunities for fans who like to emulate on-field action without ever moving from the couch.  the two giants in the field - espn and ea sports - have been locked in a heavyweight battle for years. the latter is the world s largest games manufacturer. years of experience mean that the titles in their steady flow of sport sims are finely honed  massively entertaining and ooze flair. sports broadcaster espn  meanwhile  has leant its name to a series of games that are similarly classy but lower in profile and price. but that status quo was changed forever - or for the next 15 years at least - by a deal earlier this year when espn sold ea the rights to its tv branding and on-air talent  meaning the espn games presently developed by sega will have to come to and end in their present form.  it was a massive-money deal that not only raised eyebrows but stirred active indignation in many quarters  with fans concerned that it is set to enable ea to monopolise the sports gaming landscape to an unhealthy degree. some particularly disgruntled fans set up an online petition that notched more than 18 000 virtual signatures. many of those clicking to complain were already rankled  for the espn coup happened just weeks after ea had pulled off another enormous licensing deal  controversially giving them exclusive rights to teams and personnel from america&#191;s national football league (nfl). so  will the sega - espn range be missed  a key reason for answering  yes  is that liking or disliking a sports game regularly comes down to personal taste  and having some options available always proves hugely handy. online soccer fans will testify to that  between bouts of arguing over which high-profile title rules supreme out of the similar-yet-hugely-different fifa 2005 and pro evolution soccer 4. on the same note  the espn 2k5 and ea sports games have so little to choose between them that picking favourites will come down to players  personal preferences and spending budget rather than any technical elements. taking hockey and basketball as examples  both publishers  efforts are phenomenally entertaining and fairly accessible. they also both look awesome  with the sega / espn versions perhaps shading things on a graphical front.  in terms of gameplay  i marginally preferred ea s nba live 2005 for basketball  and was more satisfied ice hockey-wise by espn s nhl 2k5. the espn games are a touch more arcade-like in look and feel and are slightly easier to get into  although like their rivals  they also offer a dizzyingly-extensive array of in-game tricks and overall challenge modes that should be enough to quench thirsts of even the most die-hard of sports fans. perhaps the most interesting aspect of the espn deal will be seeing how it affects the presentation of ea s future titles. the front-end decoration of ea s games has become something of an art-form in itself  loaded with slick visuals and oodles of licensed music. they are also immediately identifiable as coming from the ea stable  and the inevitable compulsion to add an espn look will no doubt change that in various ways. what is a shame is that the espn titles took similar care about framing the gameplay with an authentic setting - their preambles look and sound much like they would on tv. they are neat and excellent-value games in their current form  and combining them with ea s own established brand should produce a truly formidable beast.
sport,italy 8-38 wales wales secured their first away win in the rbs six nations for nearly four years with a six-try victory in rome.  tries from jonathan thomas  tom shanklin and martyn williams gave the visitors a 19-5 half-time advantage. luciano orquera did reply with one for italy but second-half efforts from brent cockbain  shane williams and robert sidoli sealed victory. fly-half stephen jones added four conversions as wales maintained their superb start to this year s tournament. starting full of confidence after their victory over england  the visitors scored the opening try after just four minutes. diminutive wing shane williams fielded a kick ahead and danced past the onrushing andrea masi and aaron persico into the italian half. his pass to tom shanklin appeared forward but when the centre was held up short  the ball was switched left and michael owen s long cut-out pass gave the lurking thomas an easy run-in.  stephen jones  who retained the kicking duties despite gavin henson s heroics against england  slotted an excellent conversion from wide out. wales twice threatened further scores but failed to find the crucial pass  and italy hit back out of the blue in the 11th minute.  henson  sporting gold boots rather than the silver variety that did for england  beat two players with ease out on the left touchline. but his attempted chip ahead was charged down by orquera  who snaffled the loose ball and hared away from halfway to score in the right corner. with the welsh line-out stuttering and italy twice turning the visitors  scrum  the home side s forward power brought them back into it. but a clever high kick from henson almost brought a try for hal luscombe when roland de marigny and ludovico nitoglia made a hash of claiming it as the ball bounced into touch.  wales regained control with a second try in the 21st minute  henson lobbing up a high kick to the left corner where shanklin jumped higher than nitoglia to dot down his 15th test try. jones was unable to convert and de marigny then hit the upright with a penalty attempt for italy. henson was also narrowly short with a long-range effort at goal  but wales ended the half with a vital third score to give themselves some breathing space.  henson sent luscombe streaking away and when he off-loaded to martyn williams  the flanker showed his nous to ground the ball against the padding of the post  jones adding the conversion. italy  who lost flanker mauro bergamasco with a head knock before half-time  built up a head of steam on the resumption. de marigny landed a penalty to make it 19-8 and a nitoglia break through the middle threatened a try only for the move to break down with a knock-on. but wales put the outcome beyond doubt with two superb tries in four minutes before the hour. their fourth after 53 minutes was sparked by another mazy run from shane williams  who beat several players with ease  and finished with a powerful angled run from lock cockbain. before italy could recover from that blow  a strong surge from gareth thomas and great off-loads from martyn williams and replacement kevin morgan saw shane williams scamper over.  with jones converting both for a 33-8 lead  wales had the luxury of sending on five more replacements for the final quarter. the icing on the cake came with a sixth try after more superb support work  shane williams and ceri sweeney combining to send sidoli over in the left corner. the only downside for wales was a hamstring injury suffered by luscombe. but after back-to-back wins at the start of the tournament for the first time in 11 years  they will travel to paris in a fortnight looking like genuine contenders.  r de marigny; mirco bergamasco  w pozzebon  a masi  l nitoglia; l orquera  a troncon; a lo cicero  f ongaro  m castrogiovanni  s dellape  m bortolami (capt)  a persico  mauro bergamasco  s parisse.  g intoppa  s perugini  ca del fava  d dal maso  p griffen  m barbini  kp robertson.  g thomas (capt); h luscombe  t shanklin  g henson  s williams; s jones  d peel; g jenkins  m davies  a jones; b cockbain  r sidoli; j thomas  m williams  m owen.  r mcbryde  j yapp  i gough  r sowden-taylor  g cooper  c sweeney  k morgan.  andrew cole (australia).
tech,podcasters  look to net money nasa is doing it  14-year-old boys in bedrooms are doing it  couples are doing it  gadget lovers - male and female - are definitely doing it.  it is podcasting - diy radio in the form of downloadable mp3 audio files. they can done by anyone who has a microphone  simple software  the net  and something to say. some liken them to talking  audioblogs  because many complement text-based weblogs - diary-like sites where people share their thoughts. they are essentially amateur radio shows on the net  on demand  and the  movement  is at very early stages.  it s about real people saying real things and communicating   says adam curry  former mtv vj and the pied piper of podcasting. he was one of a community of people who created ipodder  a small computer program  known as an  aggregator .  it collects and automatically sends mp3 files to any digital music-playing device that can play wmp formats. those with digital music players can select which podcasts they like  and subscribe - for free - to that show s  feed . when a new podcast is available  it is automatically sent to the device when connected to a computer.  it is totally going to kill the business model of radio   thinks curry.  i just did a tour of madison avenue where all the big brands and advertising agencies of the world are   he says.  and they are scared to death of the next generation - like my daughter who is 14 - who don t listen to radio.  they are on msn  they ve got their ipod  their mp3 player  they ve got their xbox - they are not listening to radio.  so how are they going to reach these audiences   it is the distribution that is changing and the barriers are being brought down so everyone can be part of it.   it is a fledgling movement  but it is gaining momentum now that people have started thinking about how to make a business from it. ian fogg  jupiter research analyst  thinks there could be potential for business  but it could take an interesting turn if big companies  like apple and microsoft  get involved.  it is a nascent area but quite exciting. it is yet another area that demonstrates the move to a digital lifestyle and digital home is not over   he says.   podcasting is one of those interesting areas that bridges what you do at home and what you do out and about - a classic hybrid. it is another aspect of the  time-shifting  of content - the latest industry buzzword for being able to listen to what you want  when  and wherever you want. audiences are in the 10s  100s  and 1 000s rather than millions. more than 4 300 podcasts are currently listed. curry s daily source code - which he committed to doing daily to inspire the community - has 10s of thousands of listeners.  but dave winer is doubtful. he designed the format called rss (really simple syndication)  which gives web users an easy way to keep updated automatically on sites they like. podcasts rely on his technology because it is the way they are distributed. he is also writer of the longest-running weblog on the net  scripting news. he thinks its power lies in its democratising potential  not in its  over-hyped  business promise.   we re the sources  the people doing stuff  and podcasting is a way to tell people who care what we re doing.  no matter how you look at it  commercialising this medium isn t going to make very much money   he says.  podcasting is going to be a medium of niches  with  audiences  measured in the single digits  like e-mail or blogs.  maybe in a few years  maybe six or seven digits. but it will have to sustain interest beyond the hype balloon.  curry and associate ron bloom s new venture  called podshow  is to help ordinary people produce  post  distribute and market their podcasts. because of the way podcasts work  based on rss  the latest podcasts which people can select mean that they are ready-made targets.  when you look at podcasting - wow this is a pretty interesting audience. the audience is pre-selected. they have decided to subscribe to your program   explains curry. advertising  in his eyes  can be tailored to podcasts  to make it more imaginative and unobtrusive.  how i believe this will work  is to create a network that  in aggregation  will have enough numbers to support a return on investment for the advertisers and for the podcasters.  i have 50  60  70 000 listeners. i could make a couple of bucks off that  but not much. if you are talking a million podcasters  and then you can kind of divide that amongst ourselves  then that is kind of interesting.  essentially  he says  if you are doing a bass fishing podcast  someone who is selling bait and tackle will probably want to advertise on your show. he is clear the ads will not be the traditional  in-your-face  type familiar to commercial radio now.  we are really going to see these microcosms and commerce will be all over the place.   it is happening already. coffee-loving curry has sold $4 000 worth of coffee machines through a referral link to amazon from his site.  others use in-show promotions  like the dawn and drew show. one  eric rice  has won sponsorship from warner bros. he can now legally play the music of a band warner bros wants to push. some commentators on the net say it has a similar feel to the dotcom days. others say it is just another element of setting media free from big companies and letting people be creative. one thing is for sure; they are not about to disappear in a hurry. the creative forces behind radio are elated  says curry. for now  he tunes out the negative comments within the podcasting community.  i should be knighted for this   he adds  with a wry chuckle   people are going to be so happy to sit at home  make their podcast  and make a little money.
politics,ukip outspent labour on eu poll the uk independence party outspent both labour and the liberal democrats in the european elections  new figures show.  ukip  which campaigned on a slogan of  say no to europe   spent £2.36m on the campaign - second only to the conservatives  £3.13m. the campaign took ukip into third place with an extra 10 meps. labour s campaign cost £1.7m  the lib dems  £1.19m and the greens  £404 000  according to figures revealed by the electoral commission on wednesday. much of the ukip funding came from yorkshire millionaire sir paul sykes  who helped bankroll the party s billboard campaign. critics have accused the party of effectively buying votes. but a ukip spokesman said labour and the conservatives had spent £10m between them on the last general election.  with the advantages of public money the others have  the only way the smaller parties can get their message across is by buying the advertising space   he added.
business,burren awarded egyptian contracts british energy firm burren energy has been awarded two potentially lucrative oil exploration contracts in egypt.  the company successfully bid for the two contracts  granted by government owned oil firms  covering onshore and offshore areas in the gulf of suez. burren energy already has a presence in egypt  having been awarded an exploration contract last year. the firm  which floated in 2003  recently announced a deal to buy 26% of indian firm hindustan oil exploration. the £13.8m deal gives burren energy access to the indian oil and gas industry. this latest contract expands burren energy s global exploration and production portfolio - it also holds contracts in turkmenistan and the republic of congo.  these assets significantly increase our exploration portfolio in egypt and we continue to investigate further opportunities in this region   said chief executive finian o sullivan.
tech,digital uk driven by net and tv the uk s adoption of digital tv and broadband has helped make it the fourth most digitally-savvy nation in europe  according a report by jupiter research.  but the uk still lags in terms of broadband speeds compared to others. the most digitally sophisticated europeans  in terms of use of digital goods such as mobiles  tv  net and cameras  are the scandinavians. about 14 million households in the uk  60%  have digital tv  according to the communications regulator ofcom. the least digital of the european nations was greece  in 17th position  according to the digital life index.  scandinavian countries sweden  denmark and norway came out top in the report  but there were some differences in technology trends.  the european digital life index demonstrates that digital lifestyles are common today  but across europe there is no single digital lifestyle   said nate elliott  jupiter analyst.  consumers adopt different digital products and services in different countries.   although there are differences between different european nations  the gap between them is closing  the report concluded. the trend for gadgets and technologies  such as digital video recorders (dvr)  broadband  and video-on-demand will continue across europe  he added. more than six million uk households now have broadband net. by the middle of 2005  it is estimated that 50% of all uk net users will be on broadband. cable company ntl is trialling faster adsl (asymmetric digital subscriber line) broadband technology using adsl2+ which can give speeds of 18mbps compared to current speeds which are usually around 1mbps or 2mbps. bt is set to trial the technology later in the year. super-fast broadband will be necessary to the delivery of services such as high-definition tv (hdtv) and video-on-demand  already very popular in france and other european countries.  a separate survey by gmipoll last week found that  globally  people s appetite for technology and gadgets continues unabated. the poll of 20 000 people in 20 countries found that 59% wanted more technology.  the computer was the  must-have  gadget for most people (75%). the tv took second place (67%)  while the mobile was ranked in third position with 54%. digital cameras were the most popular choice of gadget for 2005  said the survey  with nearly 40% choosing this over wireless  home printing and dvr technologies. however  only 25% of britons said a digital camera would be their top gadget purchase of the year. almost a quarter  22%  said they would be buying some sort of wireless device. forty-four percent said they would be buying something  other . this might include digital music players  or gaming devices. the nintendo ds  sony s psp and gizmondo all hit the shops in 2005  and the first of the next generation of games consoles  xbox 2  is set to launch later this year. jupiter research s index is calculated using 40 different variables across net users  digital tv adoption  wireless and mobile  online activity  and digital devices.
entertainment,ten-year tragedy of missing manic richey edwards  guitarist and lyricist for the manic street preachers  vanished 10 years ago  on 1 february 1995. his disappearance remains one of the most tragic mysteries in rock music.  for his devoted fans  richey edwards was an inspired and inspiring poet  a man who articulated their desperation and despair  who shouted the things most kept hidden. the manic street preachers may only have become stadium-conquering rock giants since his disappearance - but edwards was the figurehead for their first  dangerous and dazzling incarnation. edwards did not feature in the original line-up of the band  though. singer/guitarist james dean bradfield  bassist nicky wire and drummer sean moore were originally accompanied by a rhythm guitarist called flicker. but edwards replaced flicker in time for the band s self-financed debut  suicide alley  after designing the record s artwork.  after becoming a full-time member  edwards became a critical part of the band  writing lyrics and playing guitar - though in many concerts  he was not actually plugged in. but the fiercely intelligent edwards - who name-checked writers such as sylvia plath  george orwell and philip larkin - battled depression  alcohol problems  eating disorders  and self-harm. by the time the band released their third album  the holy bible  in october 1994  edwards had been admitted to hospital with depression. but in his last interview a few months later  seemed to be making plans for the future.  edwards walks out of the embassy hotel in london in the early morning  ahead of the band s us tour to promote the holy bible. in the following days  police issue a missing person alert and his parents  graham and sherry  plead for their son to let them know he is safe and well.  police discover edwards  car in a car park near the severn bridge near bristol - a notorious suicide spot. the discovery leads many to believe he has killed himself. the rest of the band stop touring and recording.  the band play their first concerts since edwards  disappearance as a trio  performing support slots for the stone roses on their uk stadium tour.  the manic street preachers release their first music since edwards  disappearance. a design for life reaches number two in the uk singles chart. the album everything must go follows.  the manics win best band and best album for everything must go at the brit awards.  a fan says she saw edwards in the hippy resort of goa  india. interpol are alerted but do not track him down.  graham and sherry edwards fly to the spanish island of fuerteventura six weeks after reports a man fitting their son s description has been seen in a bar called underground. the report comes to nothing.  edwards  sister rachel makes an emotional tv appeal five years after the disappearance.  i d just like to say to him if he is able to listen that we do love him very much and we d like him to come back - me  mum and dad   she said.  the band play a concert in the cuban capital  havana - the first contemporary western rock band to play there.  on the seventh anniversary of his disappearance  police offer edwards  parents the opportunity to sign a death certificate. they refuse. the big issue magazine  which supports homelessness charities  prints the last known picture of edwards in a fresh plea for information.  a pair of trainers containing human bones washed up on the banks of the river severn have no link to edwards  police say.  the last song written by edwards - a song called judge y self  which was to have been used for the judge dredd film soundtrack - is released on the b-side compilation lipstick traces. a skeleton found by the river severn is not edwards  tests reveal.  the manics  seventh studio album  lifeblood  features a song dedicated to edwards called cardiff afterlife.  the remaining manic street preachers members continue to pay a quarter of the band s royalties into an account held in his name.
tech,tough rules for ringtone sellers firms that flout rules on how ringtones and other mobile extras are sold could be cut off from all uk phone networks.  the rules allow offenders to be cut off if they do not let consumers know exactly what they get for their money and how to turn off the services. the first month under the new rules has seen at least ten firms suspended while they clean up the way they work. the rules have been brought in to ensure that the problems plaguing net users do not spread to mobile phones.  in the last couple of years ringtones  wallpapers  screensavers and lots of other extras for phones have become hugely popular. but fierce competition is making it difficult for firms to get their wares in front of consumers  said jeremy flynn  head of third party services at vodafone.   if you are not on the operator s portal you are going to have quite heavy marketing costs because it s a problem of how people discover your services   he said. to combat this many ringtone and other mobile content sellers started using a new tactic to squeeze more cash out of customers. this tactic involved signing people up for a subscription to give them  for instance  several ringtones per week or month instead of the single track they thought they were getting. mr flynn said that the move to using subscriptions happened over the space of a few weeks at the end of 2004. websites such as grumbletext.co.uk started getting reports from customers who were racking up large bills for phone content they did not know they had signed up for.  what made us uncomfortable was that these services were not being marketed transparently   said mr flynn.  people did not know they were being offered a subscription service.   we saw potential for substantial consumer harm here   he added.  the swift adoption of subscription services led to the creation of a new code of conduct for firms that want to sell content for mobile phones. the drafting of the new rules was led by the mobile entertainment forum and the uk s phone firms.  everyone is required to conform to this code of conduct   said andrew bud  regulatory head of the mef and executive chairman of messaging firm mblox.   it s all about transparency   he said.  consumers have to be told what they have got themselves into and how to get out of it.   the consumer has a right to be protected   he said. christian harris  partnership manager of mobile content firm zed  said the new system was essential if consumers were to trust companies that sell ringtones and other downloads.  the groundrules must be applied across the whole industry and if that s done effectively we will see the cowboys driven out   he said. the new rules came in to force on 15 january and the first month under the new regime has seen many firms cautioned for not honouring them. some have been told to revamp websites so customers know what they get for their money and what they are signing up for  said mr flynn. also  said mr flynn  vodafone has briefly cut off between eight and ten content sellers flouting the rules.  we have quite draconian contracts with firms   he said.  we do not have to say why. we can just cut them off.  under the rules consumers must be able to switch off the services by using a universal  stop  command sent via text message. he said the system had been designed to limit how much a consumer will pay if they inadvertently signed up for a service.  the mobile is so personal that people really resent the abuse of what is effectively part of their personality   said mr flynn.
sport,davenport hits out at wimbledon world number one lindsay davenport has criticised wimbledon over the issue of equal prize money for women.  reacting to a disputed comment by all england club chairman tim phillips  the american said:  i think it is highly insulting if prize money is taken away.  somebody  i think it was mr phillips  said they won t have money for flowers at wimbledon. that s insulting.  an all england club spokesperson denied phillips made the remark  insisting:  he definitely didn t say it.  the statement added:  it was said by someone else and was a humorous aside at the end of a radio interview when the conversation had moved to talking about the wimbledon grounds.   davenport was speaking following the announcement that this week s dubai duty free event will join the us and australian opens in offering equal prize money for women.  you hear about women playing only three sets while men play five   said daveport.  and the best women are never going to beat the best men.  but it s a different game you go to watch with the women - it doesn t make it better or worse.  hopefully we will be able to change people s minds.   serena williams  who is also in dubai  added:  i m obviously for equal prize money.  women s tennis is exciting. men s tennis is exciting as well  but the women have it right now.  if you are bringing in the spectators you should be able to reap what everyone else is able to reap.
sport,wolves appoint hoddle as manager glenn hoddle has been unveiled as the new wolves manager.  the ex-england coach has been given a six-month contract to succeed dave jones  who was sacked after the club s poor start to the season. wolves chairman rick hayward said:  we re delighted glenn is here. he has a six-month contract so we can test each other out and see if it works.  hoddle  who will work alongside stuart gray  has been out of the game since he was sacked by spurs in 2003. gray  who has been caretaker manager  was assistant boss when hoddle was manager at southampton.  i m delighted to be here   said hoddle.   i saw the massive potential that wolves have got and their desire and amibition to get back into the premiership parallels my ambitions.  stuart gray has done a fantastic job as caretaker manager. we ve worked together at southampton and i m delighted to be back with him.  wolves chief executive jez moxey defended the decision to give hoddle a short-term contract.  we hope it will work out for both parties and we extend it for the long term   he said.  most managers want a four-year contract and then expect it to be paid off if it doesn t work out.  for somebody of glenn s calibre to come in on a short-term contract and put his reputation on the line  it demonstrates his commitment and self-belief and the potential he thinks is here.  hayward revealed that hoddle was one of the first to be approached after jones  departure.  he was not available at the time because he was looking at various other things   he explained.  five weeks later we re back on track and this a tremendous opportunity for wolves.   hoddle began his managerial career as player-boss with swindon before moving on to chelsea and then taking up the england job. his spell in charge of the national side came to an end after the 1998 world cup when he made controversial remarks about the disabled in a newspaper interview. the 47-year-old later returned to management with southampton  where he again succeeded jones - as he has now done at wolves. he engineered an upturn in saints  fortunes before being lured to white hart lane by tottenham - the club where he made his name as a player. that relationship turned sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the london club early last season. since then he has applied unsuccessfully for the post of france manager and had also been linked with a return to southampton. wolves are currently 17th in the championship and have a home game against millwall on tuesday.
business,cairn energy in indian gas find shares in cairn energy rose 3.8% to 1 088 pence on tuesday after the uk firm announced a fresh gas discovery in northern india.  the firm  which last year made a number of other new finds in the rajasthan area  said the latest discovery could lead to large gas volumes. however  chief executive bill gammell cautioned that additional evalution was first needed at the site. cairn has also been granted approval to extend its rajasthan exploration area. this approval has come from the indian government.  a spokesman said the company s decision to carry out further investigations at the new find showed that it believed there was significant gas. but he added:  it s still too early to say what the extent of it is.  cairn s string of finds in rajasthan last year saw it elevated to the ftse 100 index of the uk s leading listed companies. the company had bought the rights to explore in the area from oil giant shell. mr gammell is a former scottish international rugby player.
business,ex-boeing director gets jail term an ex-chief financial officer at boeing has received a four-month jail sentence and a fine of $250 000 (£131 961) for illegally hiring a top air force aide.  michael sears admitted his guilt in breaking conflict of interest laws by recruiting darleen druyun while she still handled military contracts. ms druyun is currently serving a nine month sentence for favouring boeing when awarding lucrative contracts. boeing lost a $23bn government contract after a pentagon inquiry into the case. the contract  to provide refuelling tankers for the us air force  was cancelled last year.  the pentagon revealed earlier this week that it would examine eight other contracts worth $3bn which it believes may have been tainted by ms druyun s role in the procurement process. boeing sacked mr sears and ms druyun in november 2003 after allegations that they had violated company recruitment policy. ms druyun had talks with mr sears in october 2002 about working for boeing  while she was still a top procurement official within the pentagon. she subsequently joined the company in january 2003. ms druyun admitted that she had steered multi-billion dollar contracts to boeing and other favoured companies.  in documents filed in a virginia court ahead of mr sears  sentencing  prosecutors blamed boeing s senior management for failing to ask key questions about the  legal and ethical issues  surrounding ms druyun s appointment. mr sears told prosecutors that no other boeing officials were aware that ms druyun was still responsible for major procurement decisions at the time she was discussing a job with boeing. however  analysts believe boeing may yet face civil charges arising from the scandal. the pentagon has investigated 400 contracts  dating back to 1993  since the allegations against ms druyun came to light.  boeing s corporate ethics have come under scrutiny on several occasions in recent years. boeing was sued by lockheed martin after its rival accused it of industrial espionage during a 1998 contract competition. boeing apologised publicly for the affair - although it claimed it did not gain any unfair advantage - and pledged to improve its procedures. the pentagon subsequently revoked $1bn worth of contracts assigned to boeing and prohibited the seattle-based company from future rocket work.
politics,tories reject rethink on axed mp sacked mp howard flight s local conservative association has insisted he will not be its candidate at the general election.  russell tanguay  agent for arundel and south downs tories  said mr flight was ineligible to be a candidate and the association was seeking a substitute. the news comes despite mr flight s allies saying they had enough support to hold a meeting to discuss his fate. mr flight landed in trouble over remarks on tory tax and spending plans. he quit as tory deputy chairman after apparently suggesting the tories planned extra spending cuts - but he wants to continue as an mp.  tory headquarters says he cannot stand as a conservative candidate because he is no longer an approved candidate. mr tanguay backed that view on tuesday  saying:  howard flight is ineligible to stand as a conservative party candidate.  the association is in the process of selecting a new candidate.   but the local tory chairman made similar comments on friday and dissent continues. two local councillors who back mr flight met mr tanguay and the local association s chairman in arundel on tuesday afternoon but did not comment as they left the meeting. mr flight says he will not stand down as a candidate unless his local party instructs him to do so at an extraordinary general meeting (egm). the mp  who is consulting his lawyers  told bbc news:  they selected me and they  if you like  dispose of me or keep me.  mr flight s supporters also say they have the 50 signatures needed to trigger the egm.  at a news conference  mr howard insisted he had played by the party s rules. the tory leader  who argues he is ensuring honesty  said:  we do not say one thing in private and another thing in public.   labour election campaign coordinator alan milburn said the tories were in  turmoil  because mr flight had exposed their hidden plans. the comments were not a  one-off   he said  claiming mr howard and other senior tories were obsessively committed to cutting public spending. liberal democrat chairman matthew taylor said:  whilst i disagree with howard flight s views  it seems extraordinary to sack somebody for telling the truth.   it has also emerged mr howard has suspended slough s constituency conservative association for refusing to deselect its candidate. adrian hilton was abandoned after suggesting the signing of the maastricht treaty  under john major s government  was an act of treason. the catholic herald also highlighted articles he wrote about the role of catholicism in the european union. mr hilton was chosen to fight the seat after the previous candidate  robert oulds  was sacked for being pictured with a range of guns and a hunting knife. slough conservative association has now been placed on  support status  and is being run from conservative campaign headquarters  says a senior party spokesman.  mr hilton on tuesday said he was considering taking legal action against his deposal. he said the local party had only learned of the final decision on the bbc news website on monday evening.  there are people at central office who are behaving like little dictators and seemingly people who are ordinary members are being treated with contempt   he said. the party says it did try to contact the local conservative chairman.
business,building giant in asbestos payout australian building products group james hardie has agreed to pay $1.1bn (£568m) to victims of asbestos-related diseases.  the landmark deal could see thousands of people suffering from lung diseases - caused by asbestos the company once made - receive compensation. the move follows angry protests after the firm said a previous compensation fund was running out of money. a subsequent new south wales state inquiry criticised hardie s actions. in september  the inquiry found that the company had misled the public about the amount of money set aside to cover its asbestos-related liabilities  sparking the resignation of its then chief executive  peter macdonald.  campaigners welcomed news of the preliminary agreement.  this is a momentous day in the fight for victims and their families   said asbestosis sufferer bernie banton  who leads a victims  association.  there is still a long way to go  but we are getting there.  james hardie chairwoman  meredith hellicar  said the deal provided for a funding arrangement  that is affordable  sensible and workable .  at the end of the day we are dealing with compensation for people who are terminally ill. we don t know exactly how many of them there will be  we don t know over what exact period they will fall ill   she said. however  the deal still has to receive the approval of hardie s shareholders.  hardie  which currently makes more than 80% of its revenues in the us  was once australia s biggest supplier of asbestos building materials. in 2001  the company set up a fund to compensate asbestos victims  but it later admitted the fund was running short of money. a decision by hardie to move its headquarters to the netherlands - while remaining a listed company in australia - provoked a damaging public outcry. victims groups accusing it of trying to escape its responsibilities by moving abroad  a charge the company denies. australia s securities watchdog is currently investigating hardie s former chief executive and former chief financial officer over allegations of misleading investors and the general public.
tech,apple unveils low-cost  mac mini  apple has unveiled a new  low-cost macintosh computer for the masses  billed as the mac mini.  chief executive steve jobs showed off the new machine at his annual macworld speech  in san francisco. the $499 macintosh  sold for £339 in the uk  was described by jobs as the  most important mac  made by apple. mr jobs also unveiled the ipod shuffle  a new music player using cheaper flash memory rather than hard drives  which are used in more expensive ipods.  the new computer shifts the company into new territory - traditionally  the firm is known as a design and innovation-led firm rather than as a mass-market manufacturer. the mac mini comes without a monitor  keyboard and mouse  and a second version with a larger hard drive will also be sold for $599.  the machine - which will be available from 22 january - was described by jobs as  byodkm... bring your own display  keyboard  and mouse . in an attempt to win over windows pc customers  mr jobs said it would appeal to people thinking of changing operating systems.  people who are thinking of switching will have no more excuses   he said.  it s the newest and most affordable mac ever.  the new computer has been the subject of speculation for several weeks and while few people will be surprised by the announcement many analysts had already said it was a sensible move. in january  apple sued a website after it published what it said were specifications for the new computer. ian harris  deputy editor of uk magazine mac format  said the machine would appeal to pc-owning consumers who had purchased an ipod.   they want a further taste of mac because they like what they have seen with ipod.  harris added:  everybody thought that apple was happy to remain a niche maker of luxury computers  and moving into a market dominated by low margin manufacturers like dell is a bold move.  but it shows that apple is keen to capitalise on the mass market success it s had with the ipod. the mac mini will appeal to pc users looking for an attractive   no fuss  computer.  the new ipod shuffle comes in two versions - one offering 512mb of storage for $99 (£69 in the uk) and a second with one gigabyte of storage for $149 (£99) - and went on sale tuesday. the music player has no display and will play songs either consecutively or shuffled. the smaller ipod will hold about 120 songs  said mr jobs. mr jobs told the delegates at macworld that ipod already had a 65% market share of all digital music players.
sport,soderling wins tense milan final fifth seed robin soderling took the milan indoors title with a dramatic win over radek stepanek in sunday s final.  the 20-year-old swede edged the final set tie-break for a 6-3 6-7 (2-7) 7-6 (7-5) victory and his second tour title after winning in lyon last year.  i m delighted to have won against such a good opponent in a tournament of this importance   said soderling.  i was really on form  my service was good and i really liked playing on the synthetic surface.  soderling  the world number 37  shrugged off a nervous start to take the opening set on his first set point. a change in approach from fourth seed stepanek in the second set paid dividends as he took it on a tie-break  but soderling s superior power proved too much in the third.
entertainment,us critics laud comedy sideways road trip comedy sideways has had more praise heaped on it by two us critics  associations  adding to honours it has already picked up.  the chicago film critics association (cfca) named it winner in five categories including best film and best actor for paul giamatti. but the director award went to clint eastwood for million dollar baby. the southeastern film critics also awarded sideways its best film of the year accolade. director alexander payne was named best director  and he also won best screenplay shared with jim taylor. the cfca awarded thomas haden church the best supporting actor prize and virginia madsen the best supporting actress award for their roles in the film.  sideways has already been voted best film by critics associations in new york and los angeles and has been nominated for a golden globe. british actress imelda staunton won the cfca best actress for the gritty abortion drama vera drake  adding to a growing list of awards she has won for her performance in the mike leigh film. scrubs star zach braff was named best new director for his debut garden state. michael moore s controversial documentary fahrenheit 9/11 won the best documentary  while a very long engagement won best foreign film. the chicago critics have yet to name a date for when their awards ceremony will be held.
sport,cudicini misses carling cup final chelsea goalkeeper carlo cudicini will miss sunday s carling cup final after the club dropped their appeal against his red card against newcastle.  the italian was sent off for bringing down shola ameobi in the final minute of sunday s match. blues boss jose mourinho had promised to pick cudicini for the final instead of first-choice keeper petr cech. the 31-year-old will now serve a one-match suspension commencing with immediate effect.  cudicini kept a club record 24 clean sheets last season for chelsea  but petr cech has established himself as first choice for mourinho since moving to stamford bridge in summer 2004. the 22-year-old czech republic international has set a new premiership record of 961 consecutive minutes without conceding a goal  a mark which is still running. but mourinho has used cudicini regularly in the carling cup  and the italian has only let in one goal in his four appearances during chelsea s run to the final.
politics,report attacks defence spending the ministry of defence has been criticised over the soaring spending costs and growing delays of its top equipment projects.  a national audit office report on the 20 biggest projects says costs have risen by £1.7bn in the past year. it says there is  little evidence  the mod s performance had improved  despite the introduction of a  smart acquisition  policy six years ago. a senior defence official told the bbc lessons were being learned. the nao s annual report showed the total cost of the 20 projects covered was expected to reach £50bn - 14% higher than originally planned. the total delays amounted to 62 months  with average individual delays rising by three months.  sir john bourn  head of the nao  said the problems showed the principles of the scheme known as smart acquisition had not been consistently applied.  many problems can be traced to the fact that the mod has not spent enough time and resources in the assessment phase   the report says. the nao found that projects launched since the start of the scheme were showing the same worrying tendencies as the older  legacy projects   such as the eurofighter. a senior defence official  speaking to the bbc s defence correspondent paul adams  said that although the figures were still not good enough  the report reflected unrealistic expectations early on in the project cycle. this year s overspend was significantly less than last year s £3.1bn total  and the defence procurement agency - which is responsible for buying defence equipment - was improving.  lord bach  minister for defence procurement  said he was  obviously still disappointed with the cost and time increases shown   but insisted that the defence procurement agency had  undertaken a huge amount of work to expose any underlying problems on projects . the latest findings follow a string of critical reports issued within the last 12 months  and  according to our correspondent  contain few new surprises. turning around the defence procurement agency  was a little like trying to turn around a super tanker - it takes a very long time indeed   he said. our correspondent said it was the same projects  including the joint strike fighter  the nimrod and a400m aircraft and the type 45 destroyer  which were resonsible for the bulk of the cost over-runs and delay. but he added some projects  such as the c-17 heavy lift aircraft and successor identification friend or foe (siff)  were showing good performances.
tech,halo 2 sells five million copies microsoft is celebrating bumper sales of its xbox sci-fi shooter  halo 2.  the game has sold more than five million copies worldwide since it went on sale in mid-november  the company said. halo 2 has proved popular online  with gamers notching up a record 28 million hours playing the game on xbox live. according to microsoft  nine out of 10 xbox live members have played the game for an average of 91 minutes per session.  the sequel to the best-selling need for speed: underground has inched ahead of the competition to take the top slot in the official uk games charts. the racing game moved up one spot to first place  nudging gta: san andreas down to second place. halo 2 dropped one place to five  while half-life 2 fell to number nine. last week s new releases  goldeneye: rogue agent and killzone  both failed to make it into the top 10  debuting at number 11 and 12 respectively.  record numbers of warcraft fans are settling in the games online world. on the opening day of the world of warcraft massive multi-player online game more than 200 000 players signed up to play. on the evening of the first day more than 100 000 players were in the world  forcing blizzard to add another 34 servers to cope with the influx. the online game turns the stand alone warcraft games into a persistent world that players can inhabit not just visit  europe s gamers could be waiting until january to hear when they can get their mitts on nintendo s handheld device  nintendo ds  says gamesindustry.biz. david yarnton  nintendo uk general manager  told a press conference to look out for details in the new year. its us launch was on sunday and it goes on sale in japan on 2 december. nintendo has a 95% share of the handheld gaming market and said it expected to sell around five million of the ds by march 2005.
entertainment,band aid retains number one spot the charity single by band aid 20 has held on the chart top spot for a second week  strengthening its chances of becoming the christmas number one.  do they know it s christmas  featuring artists including chris martin and jamelia  held off kylie minogue to remain the week s biggest single. next week s chart will reveal who will have the festive chart-topper minogue s latest release i believe in you went in at number two  pushing down ice cube s you can do it to three. destiny s child also slipped one place to four with lose my breath  followed by girls aloud at five with the children in need record i ll stand by you.  the only other new entry in the top 10 came from robbie williams track misunderstood  a new track written for his greatest hits album. there were no new releases in the entire top 40 album charts as record companies put out all the big releases early hoping to cash in on the lucrative christmas market. u2 s how to dismantle a bomb remains at number one for a third week in a row  followed by williams  greatest hits. opera band il divo have moved up one place with their eponymous album to number three. maroon 5 s album songs about jane has moved up to number seven despite being released 47 weeks ago. and the abba gold greatest hits album has crept back into the top 40 more than nine years after it was first released.
business,soaring oil  hits world economy  the soaring cost of oil has hit global economic growth  although world s major economies should weather the storm of price rises  according to the oecd.  in its latest bi-annual report  the oecd cut its growth predictions for the world s main industrialised regions. us growth would reach 4.4% in 2004  but fall to 3.3% next year from a previous estimate of 3.7%  the oecd said. however  the paris-based economics think tank said it believed the global economy could still regain momentum.  forecasts for japanese growth were also scaled back to 4.0% from 4.4% this year and 2.1% from 2.8% in 2005. but the outlook was worst for the 12-member eurozone bloc  with already sluggish growth forecasts slipping to 1.8% from 2.0% this year and 1.9% from 2.4% in 2005  the oecd said. overall  the report forecast total growth of 3.6% in 2004 for the 30 member countries of the oecd  slipping to 2.9% next year before recovering to 3.1% in 2006.  there are nonetheless good reasons to believe that despite recent oil price turbulence the world economy will regain momentum in a not-too-distant future   said jean-philippe cotis  the oecd s chief economist. the price of crude is about 50% higher than it was at the start of 2004  but down on the record high of $55.67 set in late october.  a dip in oil prices and improving jobs prospects would improve consumer confidence and spending  the oecd said.  the oil shock is not enormous by historical standards - we have seen worse in the seventies. if the oil price does not rise any further  then we think the shock can be absorbed within the next few quarters   vincent koen  a senior economist with the oecd  told the bbc s world business report.  the recovery that was underway  and has been interrupted a bit by the oil shock this year  would then regain momentum in the course of 2005.  china s booming economy and a  spectacular comeback  in japan - albeit one that has faltered in recent months - would help world economic recovery  the oecd said.  supported by strong balance sheets and high profits  the recovery of business investment should continue in north america and start in earnest in europe   it added. however  the report warned:  it remains to be seen whether continental europe will play a strong supportive role through a marked upswing of final domestic demand.  the oecd highlighted current depressed household expenditure in germany and the eurozone s over-reliance on export-led growth.
sport,paris promise raises welsh hopes has there been a better six nations match than saturday s epic in paris   and can the welsh revival continue all the way to a first grand slam since 1978  those are the two questions occupying not just wales supporters but rugby fans as a whole after a scintillating display in paris. welsh legend mervyn davies  a member of two of three grand slam-winning sides of the 1970s  hailed it as  one of the great performances of the past three decades . martyn williams  wales  two-try scorer on the day  called it  one of the most surreal games i have ever played in . a crestfallen france coach  bernard laporte  simply observed:  there was a french half and there was a welsh half . and what a half it was for the red dragonhood  transforming a 15-6 half-time deficit into an 18-15 lead within five mesmerising minutes of the second period. but while that passage of play showed the swelling self-belief of a side prepared to back its own spirit of adventure  the final quarter told us a whole lot more about this welsh side. that they recovered from a battering in the first half-hour to first stem the tide before half-time  then reverse it on the resumption  was remarkable enough. but in resisting a seemingly unstoppable wave of french pressure in a nail-biting final five minutes  wales showed not only their physical attributes but their mental resolve.  in international rugby  any of the top seven sides can beat each other on a given day  but the great sides are those that win the close contests on a consistent basis. england suffered some infamous six nations disappointments en route to world cup glory  the pain of defeat forging bonds that ultimately led to victory when it really mattered. wales have some way to go before they can be remotely considered in a similar light. but the signs are that players previously on the receiving end are learning how to emerge on the right side of the scoreline. ten of the 22 on duty on saturday were also involved when wales were trounced 33-5 in paris two years ago. but since they threw off the shackles against new zealand in the 2003 world cup  wales have rediscovered much of what made them a great rugby nation in the first place.   the confidence in the squad has been building and building since the world cup and we now have young players who are becoming world class   noted coach mike ruddock. the likes of michael owen  gethin jenkins  dwayne peel and gavin henson are certainly building strong cases for inclusion on this summer s lions tour to new zealand. and players like stephen jones  martyn williams  shane williams and gareth thomas are proving it is not only the youngsters that are on an upward curve. jones  after his superb man-of-the-match display  observed that  we are a very happy camp now . ruddock and thomas can take much of the credit for that  ensuring the tribal and regional divisions that have often scarred welsh rugby do not extend to the national squad. the  joie de vivre  so evident in that magical second-half spell in paris also stems from a style of play that first wooed supporters the world over in the 1970s.  if england had half the innate attacking exuberance wales have produced in this championship  they would not be contemplating the debris of three consecutive defeats. similarly  wales have learnt that style alone does not win matches  and that forward power  mental toughness and good decision-making under pressure are equally important. so on to murrayfield  where wales have not won on their last three visits. while the hype in the principality will go into overdrive  the players will set about the task of beating scotland. only then - with the visit of ireland to finish - can they start thinking about emulating the hallowed players of the 1970s  and writing their own names into welsh legend.
entertainment,levy takes whitbread novel prize orange prize winner andrea levy has seen her book small island win the whitbread novel of the year award.  she is now favourite to win the overall prize after beating booker winner alan hollinghurst s the line of beauty. geraldine mccaughrean has picked up the children s fiction award for the third time for not the end of the world. all the category winners go through to compete for the whitbread book of the year title  which carries with it a £25 000 prize. a panel of judges including sir trevor mcdonald  actor hugh grant and writer joanne harris will meet up on 25 january to decide the overall winner  with the announcement being made later that evening.  bookmaker william hill has placed london-based levy s novel as the 6/4 favourite to win.  small island  levy s fourth novel  is set in post-war england and centres on a landlady and her lodgers. one is a jamaican who joined british troops to fight hitler but finds life difficult out of uniform when he settles in london. the judges  who included authors jenny colgan and amanda craig  were full of praise for her writing.  what could have been a didactic or preachy prospect turns out to hilarious  moving humane and eye-popping. it s hard to think of anybody not enjoying it   wrote the judges. the first novel section was won by susan fletcher for eve green  beating the favourite jonathan strange and mr norrell by susanna clarke. fletcher has recently graduated from graduated from the university of east anglia creative writing course. waterstone s fiction writer buyer suzie doore said:  it is great to see susan fletcher win in the first novel category. as a relatively unknown author this award will give her exposure to a wider and mass audience that she may not have reached and is a perfect example of the influence of the whitbread.  fresh out of university she is certainly one to watch.   in the biography category it was john guy s the life of mary queen of scots that was picked as winner. the judges called it  an impressive and readable piece of scholarship  which cannot fail but leave the reader moved and intrigued by this most tragic and likeable of queens . guy has published many histories  including tudor england. he is a fellow at clare college  cambridge and became a honorary research professor of the university of st andrews in 2003. michael symmons roberts  fourth collection of poems scooped the poetry award. his works mixes mysticism  erotica and philosophy through life  death and resurrection. as well as writing poetry  symmons roberts also makes documentary films. children s winner mccaughrean  who went into magazine publishing after studying teaching  previously won the whitbread prize in 1987 with a little lower than angels and in 1994 with gold dust. she has previously been the winner of the blue peter book of the year.
sport,thanou bullish over drugs hearing katerina thanou is confident she and fellow sprinter kostas kenteris will not be punished for missing drugs tests before the athens olympics.  the greek pair appeared at a hearing on saturday which will determine whether their provisional bans from athletics  ruling body the iaaf should stand.  after five months we finally had the chance to give explanations. i am confident and optimistic   said thanou.  we presented new evidence to the committee that they were not aware of.   the athletes  lawyer grigoris ioanidis said he believed the independent disciplinary committee set up by the greek athletics federation (segas) would find them innocent.  we are almost certain that the charges will be dropped   said ioanidis.   we believe that we have presented [a case] that the charges are unreasonable.  thanou  the 2000 olympic women s 100m silver medallist  and sydney 200m champion kenteris were suspended by the iaaf for missing three drugs tests. the third was supposed to take place on the eve of the athens games last august  but the pair could not be found in the athletes  village. they were later taken to hospital after claiming to have been involved in a motorcycle accident. thanou s coach christos tzekos was also suspended by the iaaf.  we were asked [by the disciplinary committee] all kinds of questions about the night of 12 august   said tzekos.  we did not leave any gaps. as far as i am concerned there is no such issue [of refusing to be tested]  and i am very optimistic.  tzekos  thanou and kenteris  who have all denied the charges  can expect a decision within a month.  deliberations will start after some additional documents are brought in by thursday   said committee chairman kostas panagopoulos.  i estimate that the final ruling will be issued by the end of february.
tech,consumers  snub portable video  consumers want music rather than movies while on the move  says a report.  produced by jupiter research the analysis of the portable media player market found only 13% of europeans want to watch video while out and about. by contrast  almost a third are interested in listening to music on a portable player such as an ipod. the firm said gadget makers should avoid hybrid devices and instead make sure music reproduction was as good as possible.  the report concluded that the driving force behind the growth of europe s portable player market was likely to be music  rather than films or any combination of the two. barely 5% of those questioned said they wanted a player that could play back both music and movies. only 7% wanted a player that could handle games and video.   dedicated music players are the only established digital media players in europe today despite their high prices   said ian fogg  jupiter analyst. mr fogg said although video players and smartphones were trying to cash in on this success they faced a tough job because of the compromises that had to be made when creating a dual-purpose device.  europeans care most about music playback   he said. the report showed that 27% of consumers asked are interested in portable music players. the research revealed that french  39%  and british  31%  consumers were most interested in music players. mr fogg said portable video players were likely to remain a niche product that would not be able to compete with devices dedicated to music playback.  a separate report by jupiter forecasts that the european digital music market will grow to 836m euros (£581m) by 2009. at the end of 2003  the market was worth 10.6m euros (£7.36m). digital music players will be behind this market growth said jupiter . apple s ipod was launched in october 2001  but the portable music player market has been growing steadily since the launch of the creative nomad jukebox in mid-2000. now consumers face an almost overwhelming choice of high-capacity portable music players that let them store every track on every cd that they own.
politics,plan to give elderly care control elderly and disabled people would choose how their own budget for personal care was spent and organised under government plans.  ministers say elderly and disabled people themselves  not social workers  should be able to decide on their care and stay in their own homes. they also plan a supremo for adult services in each english area to get different agencies working together. but the government shunned opponents  calls for free long-term care.  there are 1.7m people needing care in england and ministers suggest the number could quadruple by 2050. monday s consultation paper on social care for adults in england is aimed at ending a system which generates dependency. health minister stephen ladyman said:  this document is the antithesis of the nanny state.   it s about taking power away from the state and giving it to individuals and saying that we will help you make these decisions but we are not going to make them for you any more.  the government has already allowed local councils to give people money so they can pay for their services directly but take-up of the scheme has been  disappointing .  ministers say the new plans would make direct payments simpler and try to counter reluctance in some local councils to use the payments. they also want to set up a new  half-way house  where social workers tell people how much money is available for their care and help them choose how to spend that  individual budget . the scheme will be funded on existing budgets set until 2008. but mr ladyman said the plans could deliver savings in some areas  such as freeing up nhs beds and preventing illnesses. he ruled out free personal care in england - which is on offer in scotland and wales  saying it was  unsustainable .  david rogers  from the local government association  said agencies were working together on the kind of innovation proposed by the government. and tony hunter  president of the association of directors of social services  said the plans could improve dignity and well-being for thousands of people. but age concern argued social care was chronically under-funded and older people were being offered choice in principle  but not in practice. its director general  gordon lishman  said:  direct payments will not work if there are no services for people to choose from locally.   the tories say people who pay for three years  long-term care directly or through insurance should be guaranteed free care for the rest of their lives. tory spokesman simon burns said more than 80 000 long term care places had been lost since 1997.  after eight years of persistent change  dogmatic enforcement of regulation  and overbearing government initiatives - we need action  not a vision   said mr burns. the lib dems say they would fund free personal care by a new 50% tax rate on incomes over £100 000. health spokesman paul burstow said:  promoting independence sounds good and helping people to live in their own homes is a goal we share.  but the risk is that independence can turn into isolation if the right support and care is not available.
tech,anti-tremor mouse stops pc shakes a special adaptor that helps people with hand tremors control a computer mouse more easily has been developed.  the device uses similar  steady cam  technology found in camcorders to filter out shaking hand movements. people with hand tremors find it hard to use conventional mice for simple computer tasks because of the erratic movements of the cursor on the screen. about three million britons have some sort of hand tremor condition  said the uk national tremor foundation.  using a computer mouse is well known for being extremely hard for people with tremors so we re delighted to hear that a technology has been developed to address this problem   said karen walsh  from the uk national tremor foundation. most commonly associated with tremors is parkinson s disease  but they can also be caused by other conditions like essential tremor (et). tremors more often affect older people  but can hit all ages. et  for example  is genetic and can afflict people throughout their lives.  the assistive mouse adapter (ama) is the brainchild of ibm researcher jim levine who developed the prototype after seeing his uncle  who has parkinson s disease  struggle with mouse control.  i knew that there must be way to improve the situation for him and the millions of other tremor sufferers around the world  including the elderly.   the number of elderly computer users will increase as the population ages  and at the same time  the need for computer access grows   he said. computer users plug the device into a pc  and it can be adjusted depending on how severe the tremor is. it is also able to recognise multiple clicking on a mouse button caused by shaky digits. ibm said it would partner up with a small uk-based electronics firm  montrose secam  to produce the devices which will cost about £70. james cosgrave  one of the company s directors  said it would make a big difference to those with tremors.  i m a pilot and my tremor condition has not limited my ability to fly a plane   he said.  but using a pc has proven almost impossible simply because everything revolves around using the mouse to accurately manipulate the tiny cursor on the screen.  he said a prototype of the gadget had transformed his life.  the device could help open up computing to millions more people who have found shaking to be a barrier. last year  the office for national statistics reported that for the first time  more than half of all households in britain had a home computer. with prices getting cheaper to get online too  computer ownership is increasing. but although 62% of british people have tried the internet  only 15% of britons aged 65 or over have been online. more than six million uk households now have a broadband net. by the middle of 2005  it is estimated that 50% of all uk net users will be on broadband. there are still millions using the net through dial-up connections too.
business,nissan names successor to ghosn nissan has named a lifetime employee to run its operations after carlos ghosn  its highly successful boss  takes charge at renault.  as chief operating officer  toshiyuki shiga will run nissan on a daily basis  although mr ghosn  who masterminded its recovery  will remain chief executive. mr ghosn is to become chairman and chief executive of renault  which owns 44% of the japanese carmaker  in april. mr ghosn transformed nissan into a fast-growing and profitable business.  mr shiga will nominally serve as mr ghosn s deputy. however  he will be nissan s most senior japan-based executive and will be in charge of the firm s global sales and marketing.  he is currently in charge of nissan s operations across asia and australasia and is credited with significantly improving its sales in china. he will inherit a strong legacy from mr ghosn  who has overseen a dramatic turnaround in nissan s fortunes in the past five years. dubbed  le cost killer  for pushing through huge cost cuts in previous jobs  mr ghosn reduced nissan s overheads by 20% and trimmed its workforce by about 200 000 after taking charge in 1999. these actions helped nissan turn a 684bn yen ($6.4bn) loss in 2000 into a 331bn yen ($2.7bn) profit the following year. during his tenure  nissan has increased its market share and made significant strides in key export markets. nissan aims to increase vehicle sales to more than four million by 2008  launching 28 new models in the process.  in his new job as renault chief executive  mr ghosn will devote 40% of his time to renault  40% to nissan and the rest to the group s activities in north america and other key markets.  mr ghosn said mr shiga s appointment would ensure a  seamless  transition in management.  i need a leadership team capable of accelerating the performance and delivery of results that has characterized nissan over the past six years   mr ghosn said.  i have full confidence in toshiyuki shiga and the new leadership team to help me implement the next chapter of nissan s growth.  nissan also announced a number of other management appointments with promotions for several younger executives.
business,us firm  bids for lacroix label  a us firm has said it is in final negotiations with luxury goods group lvmh to buy the loss-making christian lacroix haute-couture house.  paris-based lvmh has been selling non-core businesses and focusing on its most profitable labels including moet & chandon champagne and louis vuitton. privately-held falic group bought two cosmetics brands  hard candy and urban decay  from lvmh in early 2003. the florida company also own a chain of 90 duty free stores in the us. lvmh refused to comment on the reports. but one of the three brothers behind the falic group said the firm had also held talks with the designer christian lacroix  and wished to retain him.  we are buying his name   simon falic told the reuters news agency.  we have plans to increase the exposure of the brand and increase the volume of business.
politics,peers debate crown succession law peers are debating proposals to change the rules governing the succession to the throne.  labour peer lord dubs  succession to the crown bill aims to end the right of male heirs to succeed to the crown even if they have an older sister. the private member s bill would also abolish the ban on heirs to the throne marrying roman catholics. the fabian society s sundar katwala said the change was  long overdue  and that he expected a  warm response . the political reform group s general secretary told bbc radio 4 s today programme there were some  very out-dated features  at the heart of britain s constitution.   in 1998 the government said in principle it supported the idea of ending gender discrimination and that it would consult on how to come forward with its own measures.  we hope they are warm towards it and don t say this is the wrong time.  he pointed out that it was 30 years since the sex discrimination act and urged politicians on all sides to back the bill. mr katwala added:  this is long overdue. parliament will have to do it eventually  the government  and i hope all of the political parties  might think this is a very simple thing to have in their manifestos.   but he acknowledged that even if the bill did win support  it was unlikely to become law because the legislative programme is likely to be squeezed by the coming general election. he said he hoped the bill would be a  gentle nudge  to the government and suggested it would  demand a response . the bill  which is in the lords for its second reading  has been adopted by former chief whip ann taylor in the commons. the rule of succession is regulated not only through descent and tradition but also by the act of settlement which confirmed in 1701 that it was for parliament to determine the title to the throne.
politics,brown targets oaps and homebuyers gordon brown has doubled the level at which house buyers pay stamp duty to £120 000 as he put the economy at the heart of labour s election campaign.  the chancellor also unveiled a one-off £200 council tax refund for pensioners and a rise in child tax credit. mr brown put 1p a pint on beer  4p on a bottle of wine and 7p on 20 cigarettes but froze petrol duty until september. the tories called it a  vote now  pay later  budget. the lib dems branded it a  sticking plaster  for the election.  tory leader michael howard predicted the budget would do nothing to help labour s  faltering  election campaign.   this government and this chancellor have run out of solutions to the problems britain faces   mr howard told mps.  their only answer is to tax  to spend and to waste - to get people to vote now and pay later.  he ended his response with an election challenge to labour  saying  bring it on . liberal democrat leader charles kennedy attacked mr brown for failing to mention the environment and for his record on social justice.  how can it be right in britain today that the poorest 20% pay more in tax  as a proportion of their income  than the richest 20%   he asked.  mr kennedy criticised mr brown for failing to mention the  ticking bomb  of council tax revaluation  saying it was  high time  the system was replaced by a  local tax based on the ability to pay . during his 49 minute speech mr brown told mps he had defied the pundits by hitting his growth target of 3.1% for 2004.  he said his budget struck a balance  between tax cuts that are affordable  investments that are essential and stability that is paramount . he rejected across-the-board tax cuts in favour of targeted help for families. the child tax credit will rise in line with earnings  giving families an extra £5 a week. in contrast  the personal income tax allowance will rise only in line with inflation from £4 745 to £4 895 next month. mr brown told mps child benefit would rise to a maximum of £63 a week for the first child and £111 for two children. despite his giveaways  budget documents show mr brown clawed back £265m through a clampdown on tax avoidance and increased revenue from a windfall tax on oil companies. he also scrapped stamp duty relief for commercial property in disadvantaged areas - a measure brought in just over three years ago. bbc political editor andrew marr suggested the sweeteners were not big enough to have a transforming effect on voters. but trust in mr brown s economic stewardship would be a central election issue  he said.  mr brown also unveiled plans for a memorial to the queen mother  funded through a special coin to celebrate the queen s 80th birthday. other measures include equal tax status for same-sex couples and a deal with the council of mortgage lenders to boost low cost home ownership. the level where people start paying inheritance tax will also rise from £263 000 to £275 000 from april. mr brown said he had met his financial  golden rule  with a £6bn surplus and he said public borrowing would continue to fall over the next five years.  the economy had grown for 50 consecutive quarters  he said  and was forecast to continue doing so over the next year  with a forecast of 3% to 3.5% in 2005 and 2.5% to 3% in 2006. the first £2bn of value-for-money savings identified in the gershon review have been achieved  the chancellor said. some 12 500 civil servant posts have been axed  and 7 800 relocated out of the south east of england  he added. snp leader alex salmond said mr brown had failed the  tartan test  as there were no measures to boost the scottish economy. simon thomas  of plaid cymru  called it a budget for middle england. uk independence party leader roger knapman attacked the plans for pensioners saying they needed  more money and the dignity of being allowed to spend it how they want   not  free bus rides . the green party said the budget was a  wasted opportunity  for environmental protection  adding:  brown obviously has an eye on the coming election  and has taken his eye off the needs of the planet.
sport,sydney to host north v south game sydney will host a northern versus southern hemisphere charity match in june or july  the australian rugby union (aru) said on wednesday.  the match will include players from the lions tour of new zealand.  the australian rugby union has thrown its support behind a proposed north-south match to raise funds for the tsunami appeals   the aru said. the date is yet to be decided but the most likely venue is sydney s olympic stadium. aru chief executive gary flowers said the world cricket charity match in melbourne earlier this month had inspired the aru.  we still need to discuss the options with the irb (international rugby board)  the lions and our sanzar (south africa  new zealand and australia rugby) partners  but june or july is seen as a better option than march to ensure we have the cream of southern hemisphere rugby available   he said. wallabies captain george gregan said the charity match was a  great initiative . tri-nations rivals australia  new zealand and south africa would feature prominently in a southern team against a northern side comprised of six nations teams france  ireland  england  wales  italy and scotland. coach clive woodward s lions squad will tour new zealand in june and july  including tests on 25 june  2 and 9 july.  almost 80 000 fans packed into melbourne cricket ground on 10 january for a charity match that raised £5.9m for victims of the asian tsunami.
business,yukos seeks court action on sale yukos will return to a us court on wednesday to seek sanctions against baikal finance group  the little-known firm which has bought its main asset.  yukos has said it will sue baikal and others involved in the sale of yuganskneftegas for $20bn in damages. yukos  us lawyers will attempt to have baikal assets frozen after the russian government ignored a us court order last week blocking the sale. baikal s background and its motives for buying the unit are still unclear.  russian newspapers have claimed that baikal - which bought the yuganskneftegas production unit for $9.4bn (261bn roubles  £4.8bn) on sunday at a state provoked auction - has strong links with surgutneftegas  russia s fourth-biggest oil producer. many observers believe that the unit  which produces 60% of yukos  oil output  could ultimately fall into the hands of surgutneftegas or even gazprom  the state gas firm which opted out of the auction.  the russian government forced the sale of yukos  most lucrative asset as part of its action to enforce a $27bn back tax bill it says the company owes. yukos  us lawyers claim the auction was illegal because the firm had filed for bankruptcy and therefore its assets were now under the protection of us bankruptcy law which has worldwide jurisdiction. on wednesday  yukos will also seek further legal remedies to prevent the break-up of the group.  we believe the auction was illegal and we intend to pursue all legal recourses available to us   yukos spokesman mike lake told agence france press.  if it exports that oil  it will be marketing a stolen product   he added. the future ownership of yuganksneftegas remains unclear amid widespread suggestions that baikal was established as a front for other interests.  speaking on tuesday  president putin said baikal was owned by individual investors who planned to build relationships with other russian energy firms interested in the development of yuganskneftegas. president putin also suggested that china s national petroleum corporation could play a role in the unit s future after signing a commercial agreement with gazprom to work on joint energy projects. yukos has claimed that the sale of its main asset will lead to the collapse of the company. commentators and yukos itself claim the firm is the target of a government campaign to destroy it because of the political ambitions of its founder  mikhail khodorkovsky.
tech,freeze on anti-spam campaign a campaign by lycos europe to target spam-related websites appears to have been put on hold.  earlier this week the company released a screensaver that bombarded the sites with data to try to bump up the running costs of the websites. but the site hosting the screensaver now displays a pink graphic and the words  stay tuned . no one at lycos was available for comment on latest developments in its controversial anti-spam campaign.  lycos europe s  make love not spam  campaign was intended as a way for users to fight back against the mountain of junk mail flooding inboxes. people were encouraged to download the screensaver which  when their pc was idle  would then send lots of data to sites that peddle the goods and services mentioned in spam messages. lycos said the idea was to get the spam sites running at 95% capacity and generate big bandwidth bills for the spammers behind the sites. but the plan has proved controversial.  monitoring firm netcraft analysed response times for some of the sites targeted by the screensaver and found that a number were completely knocked offline.  the downing of the sites could dent lycos claims that what it is doing does not amount to a distributed denial of service attack. in such attacks thousands of computers bombard sites with data in an attempt to overwhelm them. laws in many countries do not explicitly outlaw such attacks but many nations are re-drafting computer use laws to make them specific offences. lycos europe now appears to have put the plan on hold. the site hosting the screensaver currently shows a holding page  with the words   stay tuned . the numerical internet address of the site has also changed. this is likely to be in response to spammers who have reportedly redirected traffic from their sites back to the lycos screensaver site. the campaign has come under fire from some corners of the web. many discussion groups have said that it set a dangerous precedent and could incite vigilantism.  attacking a spammer s website is like poking a grizzly bear sleeping in your back garden with a pointy stick   said graham cluley  senior technology consultant for sophos.  not only is this screensaver similar in its approach to a potentially illegal distributed denial of service attack  but it also is in danger of turning innocent computer users into vigilantes  who may not be prepared for whatever retaliation the spammers care to dream up.
entertainment,christmas song formula  unveiled a formula for the ultimate christmas single has been revealed by chart bible british hit singles and albums.  the recipe includes a reference to father christmas  sleigh bells  a children s choir and a charity element. the song should also include christmas in the title  wishes for peace on earth and lots of airplay at office parties.  there are common musical elements linking nearly all the big christmas number ones of recent times   said editor david roberts. the book s analysts commissioned chart prank group moped to create the first christmas single using the whole formula - the song is called gonna have a no 1 this christmas by moped vs santa.   everybody says that christmas number ones are formulaic  but gonna have a number one this christmas is the first song to crack the formula and combine all these elements into one ultimate christmas track  said mr roberts.  surprisingly  there s no santa listed among the 8 000  top 75 chart performers in the book  so this is our chance to help santa to his rightful place in british recording history.  big festive hits over the years include band aid s do they know it s christmas   slade s merry christmas everybody  wham s last christmas and sir cliff richards  mistletoe and wine. band aid 20 s remake of do they know it s christmas is set to be confirmed as number one in the charts on sunday.
politics,tory  stalking horse  meyer dies sir anthony meyer  the tory backbencher who challenged margaret thatcher for the party leadership in 1989  has died.  he was 84  had been suffering from cancer for many months  and died at his london home. that failed  stalking horse  leadership challenge made it easier for michael heseltine to mount his own bid. that in turn paved the way for john major to move into 10 downing street  after the second ballot. meyer s constituency party  clwyd north west  which he had represented as an mp for more than 20 years  deselected him as a result of that challenge. sir anthony john charles meyer was born on 27 october  1920. educated at eton  and at new college  oxford  he served in the scots guards from 1941 to 1945 and was wounded in tanks in normandy. he worked under edward heath on europe at the foreign office and subsequently won the eton and slough seat for the tories in 1964 - by 11 votes. labour regained the seat two years later  and meyer had to wait until 1970 before he could re-enter parliament. his prospects of a front bench slot remained remote because he tended to defy the party line.
tech,china net cafe culture crackdown chinese authorities closed 12 575 net cafes in the closing months of 2004  the country s government said.  according to the official news agency most of the net cafes were closed down because they were operating illegally. chinese net cafes operate under a set of strict guidelines and many of those most recently closed broke rules that limit how close they can be to schools. the move is the latest in a series of steps the chinese government has taken to crack down on what it considers to be immoral net use.  the official xinhua news agency said the crackdown was carried out to create a  safer environment for young people in china . rules introduced in 2002 demand that net cafes be at least 200 metres away from middle and elementary schools. the hours that children can use net cafes are also tightly regulated. china has long been worried that net cafes are an unhealthy influence on young people. the 12 575 cafes were shut in the three months from october to december. china also tries to dictate the types of computer games people can play to limit the amount of violence people are exposed to.  net cafes are hugely popular in china because the relatively high cost of computer hardware means that few people have pcs in their homes. this is not the first time that the chinese government has moved against net cafes that are not operating within its strict guidelines. all the 100 000 or so net cafes in the country are required to use software that controls what websites users can see. logs of sites people visit are also kept. laws on net cafe opening hours and who can use them were introduced in 2002 following a fire at one cafe that killed 25 people. during the crackdown following the blaze authorities moved to clean up net cafes and demanded that all of them get permits to operate. in august 2004 chinese authorities shut down 700 websites and arrested 224 people in a crackdown on net porn. at the same time it introduced new controls to block overseas sex sites. the reporters without borders group said in a report that chinese government technologies for e-mail interception and net censorship are among the most highly developed in the world.
business,bush to outline  toughest  budget president bush is to send his toughest budget proposals to date to the us congress  seeking large cuts in domestic spending to lower the deficit.  about 150 federal programs could be cut or axed altogether as part of a $2.5 trillion (£1.3 trillion) package aimed at curbing the giant us budget deficit. defence spending will rise  however  while the proposals exclude the cost of continuing military operations in iraq. vice-president dick cheney said the budget was the  tightest  so far.  at the heart of the administration s fifth budget  presented to congress on monday  is an austere package of domestic measures. these would see discretionary spending rise below the projected level of inflation.  such belt-tightening is designed to tackle the massive budget deficit increases of president bush s first term. mr cheney admitted that the budget was the toughest of the bush presidency but argued it was  fair and responsible .  it is not something we have done with a meat axe  nor are we suddenly turning our back on the most needy people in our society   he said. the wars in iraq and afghanistan  increased expenditure on national security after 9/11 and the 2001 recession wiped out the budget surplus inherited by president bush in 2001 and turned it into a record deficit. the shortfall is projected to rise to $427bn in 2005.  education  environmental protection and transport initiatives are set to be scaled back as a first step towards reducing the deficit to $230bn by 2009.  most controversially  the government is seeking to cut the medicaid budget  which provides health care to the nation s poorest  by $45bn and to reduce farm subsidies by $587m. spending on defence and homeland security is set to increase  although not by as much as originally planned. president bush s proposals would see the pentagon s budget rise by $19bn to $419.3bn while homeland security would get an extra $2bn.  the budget does not include the cost of running military operations in iraq and afghanistan  for which the administration in expected to seek an extra $80bn from congress later this year.  also not featuring in the proposals is the cost of funding the administration s radical proposed overhaul of social security provision. some expects believe this could require borrowing of up to $4.5bn trillion over a twenty year period. despite the republicans holding a majority in both houses of congress  the proposals will be fiercely contested over the next few months.  john mccain  a republican senator  said he was pleased the administration was prepared to tackle the deficit.  with the deficits that we are now running  i am glad the president is coming over with a very austere budget   he said. however  democratic senator kent conrad said the proposals exposed the country to huge financial commitments beyond 2009.  the cost of everything he [president bush] advocates explodes   he said.
entertainment,cage film s third week at us top nicolas cage movie national treasure has topped the us and canada box office for the third week in a row.  national treasure made $17.1m (£8.8m) in ticket sales from friday to sunday  according to studio estimates  taking its total to $110.2m (£56.7m). comedy christmas with the kranks  starring tim allen and jamie lee curtis  was in second place. the polar express entered in third place while jude law film closer made its debut at number six.  oliver stone s big-budget epic alexander  starring colin farrell  followed last week s disappointing sixth-place opening with a slump to seventh place and takings of $4.7m (£2.4m). critics have savaged the three-hour epic  which reportedly cost $150m (£77m) to make. national treasure  which sees cage s character ben gates chase a hidden fortune  has been made by disney studios. it is cage s fourth collaboration with jerry bruckheimer  who is usually noted for his male-orientated action films.
sport,pountney handed ban and fine northampton coach budge pountney has been fined £2 000 and banned from match-day coaching for six weeks for calling a referee  a disgrace .  pountney was found guilty of bringing the game into disrepute at a rugby football union disciplinary hearing in london on thursday night. pountney criticised referee steve lander s performance in northampton s defeat by saracens on 5 february. the last two weeks of the six-week ban are suspended. pountney pleaded guilty to the offence before a panel consisting of chairman robert horner  nigel gillingham and jeff probyn. the ban means former scotland international pountney cannot enter the playing enclosure  technical areas or go near the touchline  tunnel or players and officials  areas on the day of a game.
entertainment,bafta to hand out movie honours movie stars from across the globe are attending this year s bafta film award ceremony.  british stars imelda staunton and clive owen are hoping for awards at the odeon in london s leicester square. hollywood stars leonardo dicaprio  pierce brosnan  christian slater and richard gere are also in the audience for the biggest night in uk film. hollywood blockbuster the aviator  starring dicaprio  leads the field with 14 nominations  including best movie. it is up against eternal sunshine of the spotless mind  finding neverland  the motorcycle diaries and british film vera drake  which has 11 nominations.  staunton is one of the favourites to land the best actress award for her gritty role as a backstreet abortionist in the small-budget film. she arrived at the ceremony wearing a green silk and chiffon low cut evening dress decorated with beads.  it s lovely to be here at home  to be on british soil. it s very nice indeed   she told reporters.  asked whether she was nervous about her best actress nomination she said:  it s out of my hands  there s nothing i can do. i m here with a lot of mates and we re going to have a very nice evening.  other nominees in the best actress category include charlize theron for monster  ziyi zhang for house of flying daggers and uk star kate winslet  who has two nods for her roles in eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and finding neverland. dicaprio faces competition from bernal  jamie foxx  jim carrey and johnny depp in the best actor category. the crowed screamed when he arrived on the red carpet. it s unlike anything i ve ever encountered. it s very intense and very loud   he told the bbc.   it s the first time i ve come to the baftas because it s the first time i ve been nominated...i ve appreciated british cinema for a long time and to be recognised like this is a special honour.  gere  who is presenting the best film award  said:  it s a big party  i had no idea it was going to be this big. it s crazy  i think it s bigger than the academy awards.   british actor owen is hoping to repeat his golden globe success with a best supporting actor award for his role in closer. he raised one of the biggest cheers of the night when he walked down the red carpet.  i was always a huge fan of closer as a play  so when i got the call to appear in the film  it was a huge thrill for me   he said.  the whole experience has been a treat and i m very fortunate to have been given the role.  his co-star natalie portman is up against blanchett  heather craney  julie cristie and meryl streep in the best supporting actress category. mike leigh is up for the best director award for vera drake  alongside martin scorsese for the aviator  michael mann for collateral  michel gondry for eternal sunshine of the spotless mind and marc forster for finding neverland.  the orange british academy film awards will be shown on bbc one at 2010 gmt.
sport,ireland surge past scots ireland maintained their six nations grand slam ambitions with an impressive victory over scotland at murrayfield.  hugo southwell s try gave the scots an early 8-0 lead but scores from locks malcolm o kelly and paul o connell put the visitors in command by half-time. a third try from wing denis hickie and third penalty from ronan o gara  who kicked 13 points  extended the lead. jon petrie scored a second try for scotland but late scores from john hayes and gavin duffy sealed victory. after two hard-earned away victories  eddie o sullivan  side can now look forward to welcoming england to lansdowne road in a fortnight. scotland will try to give their coach matt williams a first six nations victory when italy come to edinburgh  but they again struggled to turn pressure into points. the home side started with tremendous intensity and dominated territory and possession in the opening 10 minutes. a powerful charge from flanker jason white was carried on by ali hogg and when ireland conceded a penalty close to their own line  scotland kicked it to touch. the irish defence foiled the home side on that occasion  but a stray hand in a ruck allowed paterson to stroke over a penalty in the eighth minute.  if that was a paltry reward for their early pressure  scotland got the try they deserved when paterson s searing break and andy craig s pass sent southwell streaking to the right corner. paterson was off target with the conversion and fly-half dan parks then missed a presentable drop-goal attempt. ireland got themselves on the scoreboard with an o gara penalty and by the 24th minute the visitors were ahead. stuart grimes pulled down o kelly at a line-out  ireland kicked the penalty to touch and from the set-piece  the big lock was driven over by the rest of his pack.  o gara added the conversion and a further penalty  after shane horgan almost grabbed a second try from o gara s chip to the corner  only for the ball to spill from his hand. but ireland still delivered a hammer blow to scotland s hopes just before the interval. o connell - skipper in the absence of brian o driscoll - powered through parks  weak tackle after a free-kick from a scrummage to burrow over.  scotland suffered a further blow on the resumption when ireland flanker johnny o connor won another vital turnover  and o gara s basketball pass sent hickie over in the left corner. o gara converted and then thumped over a 40m penalty to give the visitors a commanding 28-8 advantage. scotland looked bereft of ideas but a half-break from paterson sparked them back to life just before the hour. stuart grimes won a line-out and a well-worked move saw petrie scuttle round the side of the ruck to dive over in the left corner. but it proved a false dawn  and ireland reasserted their authority in the final 10 minutes. peter stringer and o kelly combined to put giant prop hayes over in the right corner before replacement gavin duffy scorched away on the left  david humphreys adding the final flourish with a touchline conversion.  : c paterson; s danielli  a craig  h southwell  s lamont; d parks  c cusiter; t smith  g bulloch (capt)  g kerr; s grimes  s murray; j white  a hogg  j petrie.  r russell  b douglas  n hines  j dunbar  m blair  g ross  b hinshelwood.  g murphy; g dempsey  s horgan  k maggs  d hickie  r o gara  p stringer; r corrigan  s byrne  j hayes  m o kelly  p o connell  s easterby  j o connor  a foley.  f sheahan  m horan  d o callaghan  e miller  g easterby  d humphreys  g duffy.  joel jutge (france)
entertainment,stars pay tribute to actor davis hollywood stars including spike lee  burt reynolds and oscar nominee alan alda have paid tribute to actor ossie davis at a funeral in new york.  veteran star ossie davis  a well-known civil rights activist  died in miami at the age of 87 on 4 february 2005. friends and family  including actress ruby dee his wife of 56 years  gathered at the riverside church on saturday. also present at the service was former us president bill clinton and singer harry belafonte  who gave the eulogy.  he would have been a very good president of the united states   said mr clinton.  like most of you here  he gave more to me than i gave to him.   the 87-year-old was found dead last weekend in his hotel room in florida  where he was making a film. police said that he appeared to have died of natural causes. davis made his acting debut in 1950 in no way out starring sidney poiter. he frequently collaborated with director spike lee  starring in seven lee films including jungle fever  do the right thing and malcolm x. attallah shabazz  the daughter of activist malcolm x  recalled the famous eulogy delivered by davis at her father s funeral.  harlem has come to bid farewell to one of its finest hopes   she said  quoting the man she knew as uncle ossie.  ditto.   ossie was my hero  and he still is   said aviator star alan alda  a family friend for over forty years.  ossie was a thing of beauty.    i want so badly someday to have his dignity - a little of it anyway   added burt reynolds  davis s co-star in the 90s tv comedy evening shade. before the midday funeral  scores of harlem residents formed a queue outside the church to pay their respects to davis.  it is hard to fathom that we will no longer be able to call on his wisdom  his humour  his loyalty and his moral strength to guide us in the choices that are yet to be made and the battles that are yet to be fought   said belafonte  himself an ardent civil rights activist who had been friends with davis for over 60 years.  but how fortunate we were to have him as long as we did.
politics,fox attacks blair s tory  lies  tony blair lied when he took the uk to war so has no qualms about lying in the election campaign  say the tories.  tory co-chairman liam fox was speaking after mr blair told labour members the tories offered a  hard right agenda . dr fox told bbc radio:  if you are willing to lie about the reasons for going to war  i guess you are going to lie about anything at all.  he would not discuss reports the party repaid £500 000 to lord ashcroft after he predicted an election defeat.  the prime minister ratcheted up labour s pre-election campaigning at the weekend with a helicopter tour of the country and his speech at the party s spring conference. he insisted he did not know the poll date  but it is widely expected to be 5 may.  in what was seen as a highly personal speech in gateshead on sunday  mr blair said:  i have the same passion and hunger as when i first walked through the door of 10 downing street.  he described his relationship with the public as starting euphoric  then struggling to live up to the expectations  and reaching the point of raised voices and  throwing crockery . he warned his supporters against complacency  saying:  it s a fight for the future of our country  it s a fight that for britain and the people of britain we have to win.   mr blair said that whether the public chose michael howard or mr kennedy  it would result in  a tory government not a labour government and a country that goes back and does not move forward . dr fox accused mr blair and other cabinet ministers of telling lies about their opponents  policies and then attacking the lies.  what we learned at the weekend is what labour tactics are going to be and it s going to be fear and smear   he told bbc news. the tory co-chairman attacked labour s six new pledges as  vacuous  and said mr blair was very worried voters would take revenge for his failure to deliver. dr fox refused to discuss weekend newspaper reports that the party had repaid £500 000 to former tory treasurer lord ashcroft after he said the party could not win the election.  we repay loans when they are due but do not comment to individual financial matters   he said  insisting he enjoyed a  warm and constructive  relationship to lord ashcroft.  meanwhile lib dem leader charles kennedy is expected to attack mr blair s words as he begins a nationwide tour on monday. mr kennedy is accelerating lib dem election preparations this week as he visits manchester  liverpool  leicester  somerset  basingstoke  shrewsbury  dorset and torbay. he said:  this is three-party politics. in the northern cities  the contest is between labour and the liberal democrats.  in southern and rural seats - especially in the south west - the principal contenders are the liberal democrats and the conservatives  who are out of the running in scotland and wales.  the lib dems accuse mr blair of making a  touchy-feely  speech to labour delegates which will not help him regain public trust.
business,quiksilver moves for rossignol shares of skis rossignol  the world s largest ski-maker  have jumped as much as 15% on speculation that it will be bought by us surfwear firm quiksilver.  the owners of rossignol  the boix-vives family  are said to be considering an offer from quiksilver. analysts believe other sporting goods companies may now take a closer look at rossignol  prompting an auction and pushing the sale price higher. nike and k2 have previously been mentioned as possible suitors.  rossignol shares touched 17.70 euros  before falling back to trade 7.8% higher at 16.60 euros. european sporting goods companies have seen foreign revenues squeezed by a slump in the value of the us dollar  making a takeover more attractive  analysts said. companies such as quiksilver would be able to cut costs by selling rossignol skis through their shops  they added. the boix-vives family is thought to have spent the past couple of years sounding out possible suitors for rossignol  which also makes golf equipment  snowboards and sports clothing.
sport,dallaglio eyeing lions tour place former england captain lawrence dallaglio still harbours hopes of a place on the british and irish lions tour to new zealand.  lions coach sir clive woodward has made it clear he will pick his squad to tour next summer based on form shown in the six nations championship. but dallaglio  who called time on england earlier this year  said:  i assure you i wouldn t let anyone down.  i know what it takes and what i have to offer   he told the daily telegraph. dallaglio toured south africa with the lions in 1997 but was forced home early with a knee injury from the trip to australia three years ago.  the 32-year-old also felt concentrating on club rugby could have prolonged his international shelf-life. he said:  i ll be in good shape and fresh without another 10 tests on the clock.  from what i witnessed at close quarters on sunday in our heineken cup match against leicester  i certainly didn t feel out of place alongside those players  many of whom will be on the trip.   if i m fit and playing well  then i m most certainly available.  if clive feels he has no need to look outside the international crop  then fine. if he does  then he won t need to look too far  will he
business,india s rupee hits five-year high india s rupee has hit a five-year high after standard & poor s (s&p) raised the country s foreign currency rating.  the rupee climbed to 43.305 per us dollar on thursday  up from a close of 43.41. the currency has gained almost 1% in the past three sessions. s&p  which rates borrowers  creditworthiness  lifted india s rating by one notch to  bb+ . with indian assets now seen as less of a gamble  more cash is expected to flow into its markets  buoying the rupee.   the upgrade is positive and basically people will use it as an excuse to come back to india   said bhanu baweja  a strategist at ubs.  money has moved out from india in the first two or three weeks of january into other markets like korea and thailand and this upgrade should lead to a reversal.  india s foreign currency rating is now one notch below investment grade  which starts at  bbb- . the increase has put it on the same level as romania  egypt and el salvador  and one level below russia.
sport,faultless federer has no equal roger federer - nice bloke  fantastic tennis player - the ultimate sportsman.  when lleyton hewitt shook his hand after getting another thrashing  a third in as many months  the australian said;  you re the best.  how right he is. the stats speak for themselves: 11 titles from 11 finals during 2004 - three of them grand slams - and 13 final victories in a row going back to vienna 2003. that s an open-era record. hewitt  at times in houston  showed form which easily matched his grand slam-winning efforts of 2001 and 2002. but he was outplayed. twice. hewitt  along with andy roddick and marat safin  is sure to be prominent during 2005. but realistically  all three will be fighting for the world number two ranking. according to all those players and even federer himself  the swiss star is in a different league.   right now i feel that a little bit   he told bbc sport.  i ve dominated all the top ten players. they say nice things about me because i have beaten them all. i am dominating the game right now and i hope it continues!  the number one player in the world is also the main man for promoting the sport off court. he has just been voted  by the international tennis writers  as the best  ambassador for tennis  on the atp tour. he has time for everyone. every match  from first round to final  is followed by a series of press interviews in three languages; english  french and swiss-german. after a major win  there are extra requests  obligations and interviews  all seen through to the end with courtesy and  most importantly  good humour.  you guys are funny  i have a good time with you guys   he said  genuinely happy to talk into yet another tape recorder.  i see you pretty much every day on the tour so to give away an hour for interviews is really no problem for me.  if i can promote tennis and the sport then that is good for me. people say thanks back and that is nice.  what a refreshing attitude from someone who could easily dominate the sports pages for a decade. it sums up his modest personality. shortly after collecting a waterford crystal trophy  a mercedes convertible and a tasty cheque for $1.5m  federer addressed the houston crowd and concluded by saying  thanks for having me . now he just needs to find a way of winning the french open  the one grand slam to so far elude him.
sport,young debut cut short by ginepri fifteen-year-old donald young s first appearance in an atp tennis tournament proved brief as the teenager went out in round one of the san jose open.  young shot to the top of the junior world rankings when he won the boys  singles at january s australian open. but the wildcard entry was dispatched by fellow american robby ginepri in straight sets  6-2 6-2  in california. despite that he was happy with his tour debut.  it was fun. i had my chances  but they didn t come through   he said. young  who beat two players ranked in the top 200 when he was just 14  was only 2-1 down in the first set before losing 10 of the next 13 games. and ginepri - six years older than the youngest player to ever win a junior slam and top the global standings - admitted he was impressed.   he s very talented   said ginepri.  he s got a long future ahead of him.  being left-handed  he was very quick around the court.  his serve is a little deceptive. he came into the net and volleyed better than i thought.  earlier  south korean hyung-taik lee defeated american jan-michael gambill 6-3 7-6 (7-4). american kevin kim defeated jan hernych of the czech republic 7-5 6-3  canadian qualifier frank dancevic downed american jeff morrison 4-6 7-6 (7-3) 6-0  and denmark s kenneth carlsen beat irakli labadze of the republic of georgia 6-7 (4-7) 6-2 6-3. top seed andy roddick launches his defence of the title on wednesday against qualifier paul goldstein. second seed andre agassi opens his campaign on tuesday against wildcard bobby reynolds  last year s us collegiate champion. agassi has won the san jose five times  but his run of three straight titles ended last year when he fell to mardy fish in the semi-finals. fish went on to lose to roddick in the final.
entertainment,top gig award for scissor sisters new york band scissor sisters have won a gig of the year award for their performance at this year s v festival.  the award was voted for by listeners of virgin radio  which compiled a top 10 which was mostly dominated by newcomers on the music scene this year. the quirky disco-rock band beat the red hot chili peppers who came second for their hyde park performance in june. virgin radio dj pete mitchell said:  this year has seen an amazing array of talent come into the mainstream.  he added:  the scissor sisters are one of the most original  eccentric bands to come through and it s no surprise the british public are lapping up their performances.  newcomers keane came in third place for their august gig at the v festival  followed by maroon 5 and snow patrol.  music veterans the who and david bowie  both earned places on the list  at number eight and 10 respectively. at number seven was oxfam s make fair trade gig at london s hammersmith apollo in october  which featured performances by rem  razorlight and coldplay s chris martin. glasgow s franz ferdinand earned a place at number nine for their home-town performance in april. the annual survey was voted for by nearly 4 000 listeners.
sport,ruddock backs yapp s credentials wales coach mike ruddock says john yapp has what it takes as an international.  the 21-year-old blues prop is the only uncapped player in wales  six nations squad  gaining a chance in the absence of ospreys loose-head duncan jones.  john is a young man with a big future. he has been playing with the blues for two years and has racked up mileage on his playing clock   said ruddock.  he has international size  is a big  physical lad and a good ball-carrier with a high tackle-count.  ruddock s assessment was backed up by yapp s coach at the blues  former wales and lions prop dai young.   john s been on an upward curve all season and is going from strength to strength   young told bbc sport wales.  his ball carrying gives us good go-forward  he impresses in defence and his work-rate is excellent.  he s working hard on his scrummaging technique  which he is keen to improve to become a destroyer on the loose-head.  to be fair to him he s not quite there with the scrummaging yet  but nobody can fault his effort  commitment and attitude.  john s a very strong man and is eager for the challenge  if he s pitched in he won t let anyone down.  he s developing quickly  but i hope he isn t pushed too quickly in a way that would hurt his development.   ruddock hopes that the selection of yapp and dragons lock ian gough - out of the international reckoning since falling out with former coach steve hansen - will send a message to other players in wales.  john and ian have been rewarded for impressing during the heineken cup competition   said ruddock.  both of them have played well  and we want to send a message out that consistently playing well gets you in the squad.  we believe this is an exciting squad representing traditional values of welsh rugby  and based on the performances in the november internationals.  we have strength and experience up front  and well-recognised talent  pace and skill behind.  the management team just want to get hold of the players and get out on the training pitch at the moment.  they are all due in on sunday  and that s when the hard work starts.
politics,iraq advice claim sparks new row the tories say ministers must respond in parliament to claims that the legal advice used to justify the iraq war was drawn up at number 10.  downing street has denied the claims  made in a new book about the attorney general lord goldsmith s advice. lord goldsmith also denied them  saying he was not  leaned on  in any way. but the conservatives and liberal democrats say they want the publication of the full legal advice given by the attorney general.  the government has consistently refused to publish lord goldsmith s advice on the legality of the war - saying such papers have always been kept confidential.  but a short statement about lord goldsmith s position was presented in a written parliamentary answer on 17 march 2003 - just before a crucial commons vote on the military action. it said it was  plain  iraq continued to be in material breach of un resolution 1441. in his new book  lawless world  philippe sands  a qc and international law professor  suggests the parliamentary answer was written in downing street. according to mr sands  lord goldsmith had warned tony blair in a document on 7 march 2003 that the use of force against iraq could be illegal and that it would have been safer to seek a second un resolution sanctioning military action.  mr sands told newsnight the government had prepared a legal team to be able to defend its case  in case legal action was taken against the uk over the war. on 10 march  military chiefs reportedly asked for an unequivocal statement about the legality of the war to make sure troops could be defended in a court of law. the book  being serialised in the guardian newspaper  says on 13 march lord goldsmith met then home office minister lord falconer and downing street adviser baroness morgan.  after that downing street proceeded to set out his [lord goldsmith s] view in a parliamentary answer which was then published on 17 march   said mr sands.  tory leader michael howard reiterated calls for the publication of the full legal advice given by the attorney general  warning:  this issue will not go away.   these revelations throw an intensive spotlight on to the cavalier way in which this government operates - even on an issue as important as peace and war.  the government needs to act to restore public confidence and trust.  liberal democrat foreign affairs spokesman menzies campbell repeated his party s calls for lord goldsmith s first piece of legal advice to be made public.  the public interest  which the government claims justifies non-publication of the whole of the advice  can only be served now by the fullest disclosure.   in a statement to newsnight  lord goldsmith said:  in my parliamentary answer on march 17 2003  i explained my genuinely held independent view  that military action was lawful under the existing security council resolutions.  it was certainly not a view that i expressed as a result of being leaned on in any way  nor as i have already made clear  was it written by or at number 10.  the prime minister s official spokesman also rejected the claims  saying:  the attorney general made it clear the words and the judgement were his.  but ex-foreign secretary robin cook says all the advice should now be published. he said the claims suggested parliament had only received a pr&#233;cis of lord goldsmith s second opinion - and that it was actually drafted in no 10. this would be wrong even if lord goldsmith had signed the statement  mr cook said  because the attorney general s advice should be an  independent legal opinion   not subject to  political negotiation of this kind .
politics,mps issued with blackberry threat mps will be thrown out of the commons if they use blackberries in the chamber speaker michael martin has ruled.  the £200 handheld computers can be used as a phone  pager or to send e-mails. the devices gained new prominence this week after alastair campbell used his to accidentally send an expletive-laden message to a newsnight journalist. mr martin revealed some mps had been using their blackberries during debates and he also cautioned members against using hidden earpieces.  the use of electronic devices in the commons chamber has long been frowned on. the sound of a mobile phone or a pager can result in a strong rebuke from either the speaker or his deputies. the speaker chairs debates in the commons and is charged with ensuring order in the chamber and enforcing rules and conventions of the house. he or she is always an mp chosen by colleagues who  once nominated  gives up all party political allegiances.
business,lacroix label bought by us firm luxury goods group lvmh has sold its loss-making christian lacroix clothing label to a us investment group.  the paris-based firm has been shedding non-core businesses and focusing on its most profitable brands including moet & chandon champagne and louis vuitton. lvmh said the french designer s haute couture and ready-to-wear labels had been purchased by the falic group for an unspecified sum. the falic group bought two cosmetics labels from lvmh in 2003. the sale of the lacroix label comes as many fashion houses are struggling to make money from their expensive haute couture ranges. the florida-based falic group  which also runs a chain of 90 duty free stores in the us  said it planned to expand the brand by opening new stores. mr lacroix said he planned to stay at the label he founded in 1987 although exact details are still to be confirmed.
entertainment,incredibles win animation awards the incredibles movie has beaten shrek 2 to the main prizes at hollywood s animation awards  the annies.  the superhero film was named best animated feature while brad bird won best director  writer and voice actor for his role as designer edna mode. the incredibles won a total of 10 awards - but shrek 2  which had seven nominations  went home empty-handed. the two movies will compete with shark tale in the best animated film category of the oscars at the end of february.  the incredibles  awards came despite shrek 2 s greater box office success. shrek 2 took $881m (£468m) around the world  compared with $576m (£306m) for the incredibles. spongebob squarepants was named best animated tv show while tv comedy king of the hill picked up two prizes including one for actress brittany murphy s voice work. tom kenny  who provides the voice for spongebob squarepants  hosted sunday s ceremony at the alex theater  los angeles. the awards are handed out by the international animated film society. finding nemo won nine annies last year.
tech,speech takes on search engines a scottish firm is looking to attract web surfers with a search engine that reads out results.  called speegle  it has the look and feel of a normal search engine  with the added feature of being able to read out the results. scottish speech technology firm cec systems launched the site in november. but experts have questioned whether talking search engines are of any real benefit to people with visual impairments.  the edinburgh-based firm cec has married speech technology with ever-popular internet search. the ability to search is becoming increasingly crucial to surfers baffled by the huge amount of information available on the web.  according to search engine ask jeeves  around 80% of surfers visit search engines as their first port of call on the net. people visiting speegle can select one of three voices to read the results of a query or summarise news stories from sources such as the bbc and reuters.  it is still a bit robotic and can make a few mistakes but we are never going to have completely natural sounding voices and it is not bad   said speegle founder gordon renton.  the system is ideal for people with blurred vision or for those that just want to search for something in the background while they do something else.  we are not saying that it will be suitable for totally blind people  although the royal national institute of the blind (rnib) is looking at the technology   he added. but julie howell  digital policy manager at the rnib  expressed doubts over whether speegle and similar sites added anything to blind people s experience of the web.  there are a whole lot of options like this springing up on the web and one has to think carefully about what the market is going to be   she said.  blind people have specialised screen readers available to them which will do the job these technologies do in a more sophisticated way   she added.  the site uses a technology dubbed panavox  which takes web text and converts it into synthesised speech. in the past speech technology has only been compatible with broadband because of the huge files it downloads but cec says its compression technology means it will also work on slower dial-up connections. visitors to speegle may notice that the look and feel of the site bears more than a passing resemblance to the better known  if silent  search engine google. google has no connection with speegle and the use of bright colours is simply to make the site more visible for those with visual impairments  said mr renton.  it is not a rip-off. we are doing something that google does not do and is not planning to do and there is truth in the saying that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery   he said. speegle is proving popular with those learning english in countries such as japan and china.  the site is bombarded by people just listening to the words. the repetition could be useful although they may all end up talking like robots   said mr renton.
business,two nigerian banks set to merge nigerian banks united bank of africa and standard trust bank have agreed plans to merge and create the biggest bank in west africa.  the deal is also in line with a 2004 directive from the nigerian central bank that called for more consolidation in the nation s crowded banking sector. the merger was announced in a statement on standard trust s website on tuesday  but no financial details were revealed. united bank is the third biggest in nigeria in terms of number of branches. standard trust is smaller but more profitable.  the boards of united bank and standard trust  at separate meetings yesterday  approved arrangements to merge both institutions   standard trust said. standard trust is 100% nigerian-owned  but united bank has some foreign investors  including new york-based global depository receipts (32.8%)  and banca nazionale del lavoro and monte del paschi di siena  both from italy  who each have a 2.4% stake.
sport,white prepared for battle tough-scrummaging prop julian white is expecting a resurgent wales to give him a rough ride in england s six nations opener in cardiff on saturday.  the leicester tight-head is in the form of his life  making the england number three shirt his own. but he knows wales will put his technique under immense scrutiny.  the welsh scrum is a force to be reckoned with   he told bbc sport.  they have made a lot of changes for the better over the last few years.  white is also impressed with the welsh pack s strength in depth.  gethin jenkins is starting at loose-head for them. he has played a bit at tight-head but i think his favoured position is loose-head and he is very good   he added. the 31-year-old has made a massive contribution to the england and leicester cause of late and is arguably the form tight-head prop in the world.  he destroyed south africa s os du randt in the scrum at twickenham last autumn to give england the platform for an impressive 32-16 victory. leicester  who signed white from bristol when the west country side were relegated from the zurich premiership in the summer of 2003  have also been aided by white s presence this season. the tigers are sitting pretty at the top of the premiership table and have also booked their place in the last eight of the heineken cup.  i am pleased with my form   he said.  but my form is helped by the people i play with at leicester - people like martin johnson and graham rowntree.  it s been a good season so far and to be in the starting xv for the first game of the six nations is what every player wants.  i am delighted with the way things have gone but we have to get it right this weekend.  white is now one of the more experienced members of the england squad which takes to the field on saturday. injuries have taken their toll and coach andy robinson has been deprived of richard hill  jonny wilkinson  martin corry  mike tindall  will greenwood and stuart abbott.  and with 27 caps and a world cup winner s medal to his name  white is now in a position to offer his experience to youngsters such as centres matthew tait and jamie noon.  i don t know how much experience a tight-head can give a centre but you are there to give them a pat on the back if things go wrong or to be there if they want to talk in any way   he added.  when i first came into the squad  people like jason leonard and martin johnson were the first to come over and talk through things and help out.   it gives you a lot of confidence when people like that speak to you.  i was in awe of a lot of them so to sit down and speak with them and realise you are on the same wavelength is good.  white missed the vast majority of last year s six nations because of a knee injury and is raring for the 2005 event to get going. and that is despite the opening game taking place amid the red-hot atmosphere in cardiff.  i enjoy the atmosphere. the millennium stadium is probably one of the best stadiums in the world   he said.  to go down there and hear the shouting and the singing - it s one of my favourite places to play.  this is probably the most even six nations for a long time. england  ireland  france and wales are all contenders.  on form  ireland should be favourites but you just don t know - that s the great thing about this tournament.
business,takeover offer for sunderland fc bob murray  chairman of sunderland fc  has launched a £1.5m ($2.8m) bid for the club after buying broadcaster bskyb s stake in the business.  mr murray is already sunderland s leading shareholder  holding a 37.6% stake  and now hopes to take full control of the championship side. mr murray said the club would find it easier to attract more investment by having a single majority owner. sunderland delisted its shares from the stock market in august.  a lifetime sunderland supporter and board director since 1984  mr murray agreed to buy bskyb s 4.76% holding in the wearside club on tuesday - taking his stake to 42.3%. under stock market rules  mr murray is required to make an offer for the remaining shares that he does not already own at the same price paid for the bskyb holding of 31p a share.  should the offer be fully accepted  mr murray said he expected to pay a maximum of £1.53m for the remaining shares. he also stressed that fans who wanted to keep in touch with the club s financial affairs could retain a small number of shares  enabling them to attend annual meetings.  the football sector is experiencing significant changes and uncertainty   mr murray said in a statement.  the recent speculation surrounding malcolm glazer and manchester united has shown the unsettling effect possible where there are a number of disparate interests   he added.  i believe that this offer will strengthen the company and remove the potential for that type of uncertainty.   sunderland were relegated from the premiership in 2003 but are currently pushing for promotion. the club managed to reduce its losses last year from £20.6m to £1.2m after selling a host of leading players. however  the club s turnover dropped sharply from £42.5m to £28.5m over the same period  because of a fall in broadcast revenues. bskyb bought its stake in sunderland in 1999 as part of a five year media partnership deal. the deal expired last month.
entertainment,uk debut for kevin spacey movie hollywood stars kevin spacey and kate bosworth attended the british premiere of new film  beyond the sea  in london s leicester square on thursday.  spacey  45  wrote  directed and starred in the film  inspired by the life of 1950s croooner bobby darin.  this is my tribute to someone i think was a remarkable talent   said spacey  who  as darin  sings all 18 songs on the film soundtrack. bosworth  21  plays darin s wife - real life hollywood actress sandra dee.  i knew absolutely nothing about 